Phantasy Star III: Generation Of Doom
Platform: Sega Genesis / Mega Drive
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: Gamepad
Genre: Role Playing Game
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1990
Developer: SEGA
Publisher: SEGA
Players: 1
_________________________
It's the day of your wedding, and everyone is very excited, not the least of which is you. You're marrying Maia, the mysterious woman found on the shores of your father's kingdom. Suddenly, a giant dragon swoops into the hall and takes flight with your fiancee! 

Being the noble prince, you give chase to rescue your beloved. Here starts your journey into the savage worlds of Phantasy Star III: Generations of Doom. Starting as Prince Rhys, you must battle your way to save your beloved through seven different worlds, and uncover a conspiracy far worse than you ever expected.

Spanning seven worlds, and three generations, you must find and confront this evil. At the end of each generation, choose who you'll marry, and in turn get a different quest. It's up to you to save the world, you and your following generations. Phantasy Star III: Generations of Doom contains four different endings for added replay value, and numerous quests and challenges.

Hints:

- Improve late-game character stats -

A glitch in the game will allow you to make either Laya or Kara always act first in battle and be immune to physical attacks, as well as moderately improve the speed and defense of the rest of the party.

The glitch is activated in Skyhaven, when changing the Legendary weapons into Nei weapons.

1. Decide who you want to always act first and be immune to physical attacks - Laya or Kara.

2. Remove all items from that person. 

3. Make sure everyone else has their appropriate Legendary weapon equipped (Orakio Sword, Miun Claw, Siren Shot, Laya Bow, Lune Slicer).

4. Speak to the second from the left old man, who says "Nei is the word of ultimate power".

5. Check your status screens. For the person who had no equipment, attack and defense should be in the 64,000 range, and speed in the 220 range. For the others, the attack, defense, and speed bonuses of the Legendary weapon they had equipped will be permenantly added to their base stats. (Unfortunately, none of the increases to the attack statistic have effect on damage dealt in battle).

The only way the person with 64,000 defense will be hurt is from a Gnasher (who will do a whopping 4 damage) or from techniques (which are unaffected). She will always act first.

There are 3 side effects which may appear alarming but are in fact harmless.

1. Colours will be unusual - this will be corrected once you check your menu and leave Skyhaven

2. Last person in line will be shifted out of place - this will be corrected once you leave Skyhaven, and the out-of-line person will not prevent you from moving

3. Characters will be renamed - this is permanent but harmless.

- Skip Nial's Generation -

An escapipe glitch allows players to skip over Nial's generation directly to playing Aron. Aron will need to do some of Nial's quest, but it goes much faster and easier with Aron, thanks to his healing and access to the Aero Parts.

1. As Rhys, before fighting the king of Cille, make sure Wren or Mieu has an escape pipe.

2. After defeating the king, select Nial's route by marrying Lena. (Do not choose Maia as the glitch does not work for Ayn.)

3. As soon as the cinema is over and you can move, go into your menu and use an escapipe.

4. As Nial, you will warp back to Cille dungeon. Walk through it again (you will encounter only Chirpers). The king and Maia are waiting in the same place as for Rhys, defeat him once more (an easy task with full HP/TP and a stronger leader). 

5. Select Aron's route by marrying Alair. (Do not choose Laya because Adan will be unable to complete his quest.)

At this point you play as Aron. The Sub Parts, Laya Pendant, Twins Ruby, and Mystery Star that Aron come with are "fakes" that do not work, so Aron will need to collect the real ones as Nial would have.

6. Collect the Aero Parts as normal.

7. Fly to the rebel hideout and pick up the Sub Parts.

8. Go to Hazatak using the caves to Landen, Aquatica, then Aridia.

9. Get Laya as normal.

10. Go to Mystoke and get the Laya pendant.

From this point on finish the game as normal

Reviewer: Chris Cuson
http://www.allgame.com/game.php?id=221