Weaponlord
Platform: Sega Genesis / Mega Drive
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: Gamepad
Genre: Beat 'em Up
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1995
Developer: Visual Concepts
Publisher: Namco
Players: 1
_________________________
In an age of conquerors, on a bloody battlefield... a wounded mercenary draws his last breath... and the spirit of a demon enters his body. He is reborn, rising from the dead to challenge the residing war king to a duel. With one blow a new empire is started...10 days and 20 dead rulers later the armies and lands are united by one man's hand. The reign of the DemonLord Zarak has begun.

At the height of the demon's power, the prophecy of his doom was foretold by a tribal shaman...

"When the night turns violent and the moon bleeds, gripped by the skeletal fingers of death...a child will rise to face the demon in combat...and the lord of demons will fall by the hand of...the WeaponLord."

Against the advice of his lieutenants to kill the children born that night, the DemonLord waits to face his foretold killer in fair, one on one combat. The DemonLord Zarak is a true warrior, even evil can have honor.

25 years later...

Sensing the prophecy is at hand, the DemonLord holds a great tournament of champion warriors. The winner will face the demon in a final battle. The Demonlord prepares to meet his destiny head on...and destroy the WeaponLord.

Gameplay:

At its core, WeaponLord is a standard 2D fighting game experience. Where it differs is in its gameplay mechanics, and in some of its aesthetic choices and presentation. Some of WeaponLord's more original features were:

    - Thrust-Blocking - An aggressive blocking system two years ahead of Street Fighter III's similar Parry System.

    - Multiple Endings - Characters would have completely different ending sequences depending if the player beat the Story or Arcade modes.

    - Weapon-To-Weapon - When two player's weapon's clash at the same time, a struggle ensues to see who can overpower the other.

    - Weapon Breaking - Character's weapons can be broken. This occurs when a Weapon-to-weapon struggle happens, and one player immediately Two-in-One's into a special move. This breaks off a portion of their opponent's weapon, greatly reducing their range and damage capabilities.

    - Deflect - Each character has one special move that acts as a Deflect. This is similar to a thrust block, as it collides with an enemy's strike, knocks it backward...but it then automatically hits the character while they're off-guard.

    - Take Downs - Certain special moves that also knock an opponent onto their back. A player can then follow up with additional attacks while their foe is still on the floor.

    - Hair/Clothing Trim - When certain attacks are performed on an opponent in mid-swing, you can cut off a piece of their clothing or their hair. An added humiliation.

    - Password System - A password is given at the end of a match, so the player can always return to the middle of a game, if need be. A secret password is also given so the DemonLord Zarak is playable in Story Mode.

    - Death Combos - Unlike Mortal Kombat or Primal Rage, Death Combos are a certain string of regular and special moves that each have a gory effect on their opponents. These combos take skill and timing to master, and can also be done in a few different sequences. Some effects include disembowellings, decapitations, head splittings which expose the brain, and body pulp; which tears away most of the flesh from the torso.

Hints:

- End Level Passwords -
Enter the passwords for each character below in order to reach their final battle on the hardest difficulty setting.

Korr
AAA BAA BBC BCC BCB

alternate:
BBB BBA CAB CCB AAB AAB

Bane
BCB BCC ABB CCA AAA BCB

Divada
CCB BBC CCB CCA CCC ACB

Jentai
BCC CAB BBA CCC CCA BAA

Talazia
ACB AAA AAA AAC BBA CBB

Zorn
CBC AAA CBB CAA ACB ABA

Zarak
BAC CCC BAB BBB BCB ABA

- Play with Zarak in Story Mode -
Enter the following password in Options Menu:

AAC ACB BBC AAA CCB CAA

Now you can select Zarak, the Demonlord in Story Mode! 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weaponlord
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/code/586594.html