WWF RAW
Platform: Sega Genesis / Mega Drive
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: Gamepad
Genre: Sports, Wrestling
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1995
Developer: Sculptured Software
Publisher: Acclaim
Players: 1 or 2 VS
_________________________
WWF Raw is a professional wrestling game featuring 10 superstars from the World Wrestling Federation. The wrestlers you can choose from include Bret "Hit Man" Hart, Bam Bam Bigelow, 1-2-3 Kid, Diesel, Doink, Lex Luger, Luna Vachon, Owen Hart, Razor Ramon, Shawn Michaels, Undertaker, and Yokozuna.

In this game, you attempt to pin your opponent to the mat by reducing his power meter until he can fight no more. There is a large number of moves to perform, including turnbuckle maneuvers and "illegal" acts such as hitting your opponent with a metal folding chair.

This game supports up to 4 simultaneous players, and has the following game modes: One-on-One, Tag Team, Bedlam, Survivor Series, Royal Rumble, Raw Endurance Match, and Rematch.

Gameplay:

In this game, you attempt to pin your opponent to the mat by reducing his power meter until he can fight no more. There is a large number of moves to perform, including turnbuckle maneuvers and "illegal" acts such as hitting your opponent with a metal folding chair.

This game supports up to 4 simultaneous players, and has the following game modes: One-on-One, Tag Team, Bedlam, Survivor Series, Royal Rumble, Raw Endurance Match, and Rematch.

- Match types - 

In a One-on-One match, two wrestlers (one player versus the computer or two players) square off for a face-to-face bout. One Fall, Brawl, and Tournament variations are available. One Fall matches feature an in-ring referee and are contested under standard rules. Victory is achieved by a 3-count pinfall or a count-out if a wrestler stays outside of the ring for a full 10 count. In a Brawl, however, the referee is absent. This allows unlimited time outside the ring and illegal moves such as eye raking and choking are allowed at all times. The Brawl match doesn't require a pinfall to win; instead, the first player to be entirely drained of their stamina submits in defeat. In a Tournament, a player must battle through the entire roster in a series of One Fall matches to win the championship belt.

A Tag Team match is made up of two teams of two wrestlers (if two players are involved, they can choose to either control opposite teams or be on the same team against the computer). Whenever one wrestler gets tired, they can tag in their partner. A wrestler on the apron can grab an opponent if they get close to the ropes, allowing their partner to attack them. One Fall, Brawl, and Tournament configurations are available. In a standard tag team match, if an illegal wrestler is in the ring for a full 10-count, his/her team will be disqualified. Otherwise, the same rules for the singles One Fall and Brawl matches apply to tag team matches. In the tag team Tournament mode, either one player or two cooperative players will choose two wrestlers to form a team and then must defeat the remaining wrestlers in a series of One Fall tag team matches to win the tag team championship.

A Bedlam match is similar to a Tag Team match, except both team members are allowed in the ring at the same time (Essentially a "Tornado" Tag Team match). A team must defeat both members of the other team to win the match.

A Survivor Series match is also similar to a Tag Team match. Instead of only 2 members on each team, a team can consist of up to four wrestlers. It is also elimination style, in which a team is only victorious when all the opponents' teammates have been eliminated by pinfall, submission, countout, or disqualification. Only one partner can appear on the apron at one time, but the player can change outside partners via a button command.

The Royal Rumble begins with two wrestlers, and more adversaries enter until six wrestlers are in the ring. Additional wrestlers enter as others are eliminated. There are no holds barred, and elimination occurs when a wrestler is thrown out of the ring. A wrestler must be worn down before they can be thrown out, unless they're caught running with a hip toss or back body drop. The last wrestler remaining in the ring after all twelve have entered wins the match. At the end of a Royal Rumble, score rankings are shown giving a wrestler's total time in the ring along with a list of opponents they eliminated.

A Raw Endurance match is a mix between a Survivor Series and a Bedlam. The player picks his first wrestler, then up to five more partners. The choosing of partners is optional, meaning a player can choose to go in with as much as a 6-on-1 handicap. The first team to eliminate all the members of the other team wins the match.

Hints:

- Continue in Rumble -
During Royal Rumble, if you are thrown out, hold A, B, & C. If there are any wrestlers left, you will come back as that person. You should hear a single bell ring if done correctly.


- Full attributes -
Enter the CHANGE STATS code for the wrestler you want. When you are asked to change the attributes, hold Start until you hear a strange noise. You can now set all the attributes to 10!

 - Handicap match -
During a one-on-one match (one fall, brawl, tournament) press A+B+C on controller 2, and a wrestler will come out and help the opponent.

- Play as partner -
In a one player game choose a tag team match, a bedlam or a survivor series. Start the game, then press A+B+C to turn into your partner.

- Play as same character -
To play as a fighter that's already been chosen, move to that wrestler's selection screen. To activate your selection, press Up + A + C.
Note: this code works with 4-player adapters, but you can only have two of any one wrestler.

- Super punch mode -
This code will give you fists of steel. At the copyright screen, hold Start, then press Up, Up, Up, Up. The screen will flash red and you'll hear a crash.

- Three punch KO mode - 
At the copyright screen, hold A+B+C+START and rotate the d-pad clockwise. The screen should flash red if done correctly.

- KO the Referre -
To knockout the ref, either punch him three times or run into him. While he\'s unconcious you can perform illegal moves in the ring.
If you knock him out repeatedly, he\'ll run away and your match will become a brawl. This lasts until one of you runs out of energy.

http://www.mobygames.com/game/genesis/wwf-raw-
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WWF_Raw_(video_game)
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/genesis/code/919590.html