Final Fantasy II *is* Easy Type
Original title: Final Fantasy IV
Platform: Super Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: Update Hacks
Media: Cartridge
Controller: Gamepad
Genre: Role Playing Game
Gametype: Hack
Release Year: 2008
Players: 1
Hacked by: Dragonsbrethren
Version: 1.0
_________________________
I'm fairly certain anyone with even a mild interest in Final Fantasy IV knows that the Easy Type version, which was released in Japan at about the same time the US got its Final Fantasy II, has many interesting changes that aren't present in any other version of the game. Nonetheless if you spend enough time on forums you will inevitably find people who use "Easy Type" and "Final Fantasy II" interchangeably, as if they were identical to one another, despite all the evidence to the contrary available via a quick search online.

However, this erroneous claim is what inspired me to make this hack. Every byte of data that was changed for Easy Type has been ported to the 1.1 revision of Final Fantasy II US, text changes have only been made for the two new swords and anything else that needed text, the rest of the game is left entirely intact. This is as close to what we would have gotten in 1991 had Final Fantasy II US been a localized version of Easy Type. I hope you enjoy playing through this under-appreciated version of Final Fantasy IV.

Tips:

Unsealed Dark Elf's Cave
I'm sure most of you remember that if you use weapons, armor, or accessories made out of any metal or any silver in the Dark Elf's cave. However, there's a little glitch that can be exploited if you don't feel like using wooden gear or your bare hands to fight.  Simply put, make sure all metallic/silver equipment is unequipped before the start of any random battle. Then when you get into battle, equip your metal weaponry(and shields, if you want) and you won't be paralyzed for that battle! Just remember to unequip the items after the battle and before the next battle
and you can dominate your way through the Dark Elf's cave! As far as I know, this works in the Playstation and WonderSwan re-releases, too, but I know for a fact it works in the original FFII and FFIV carts.

250 of a weapon!
OK, this glitch is a way to get 250-255 of a weapon.  However, make sure you follow my directions EXACTLY how
I say to, or else the trick will not work.  To start the trick, you need the Avenger sword, which you can find in the Sylvan cave in the underground, I think.  First, equip Cecil with arrows in his GOOD hand, and the any kind of bow in his BAD. Get into a battle (preferably an easy one), and make sure that nobody does anything. If a character's turn comes before his, have them parry (press right and the parry option will come up). Once it gets to Cecil's turn, enter the item screen. Grab the arrows he has equipped and bring them down to an empty slot. Without leaving the
window, select the Avenger sword and move it up to his BAD hand.  From there, press B to exit the items window and his commands will disappear because the Avenger sword causes the person with it equipped to be berserked.
Don't have any other characters do ANYTHING! Just let Cecil beat up all the enemies.  After the battle, go to the Equip screen for Cecil.  Move the Avenger sword to an empty slot, and then without leaving the screen move the sword you would like to duplicate 250 times into his GOOD hand (the one with the numbers). De-equip, and re-equip, and voila!  You should have a sword with a circle and a number next to it in your inventory. If not, make sure
you followed my directions EXACTLY.  This works well for duplicating the Excalibur, and having Edge throw it for massive damage. Happy gaming!

How to skip the Sealed Cave
This has to be done right after the battle with Golbez in the underworld, right after the battle you get Rydia back. You cast Warp and you return to the Crystal Room with the Crystal returned. Doing this makes you completely eliminate the quest of the Sealed Cave.

No MP cost Sylph spell
Once you have the Sylph spell, simply arrange Rydia's spell list so that Sylph is in the top-right corner.  Whenever you cast the spell, Rydia will not lose any MP. Note, though, that if Rydia does not have at least 25 MP (the normal casting cost), you will not be able to select the spell for casting.

Unlike the duplicate weapon trick, this glitch DOES NOT work in the PlayStation re-release (Final Fantasy Chronicles).

Obtain the hidden summons quicke
The Mage and Bomb summon spells are very random to archive after a battle with either a bomb or mage.  Hunting them down can very time consuming especially with a low encounter rate. A good way to enhance the chances of receiving it is with multiple kills in only one battle. You will need a lot of phoenix downs for this.  In a battle with either a mage or bomb (there must at least be two), memorize the party's attack order. With one member, select to kill the enemy. The next party member should IMMEDIATELY select a phoenix down and place it on the enemy. The result will be the enemy is killed and then resurrected by the next party member. You may repeat this for as many phoenix downs as you have, then finish the battle. The amount of treasure you earn will be a lot greater, and
you will most likely earn a bomb or mage spell in the process.

Item Duplication
Firstly make sure you have the item you want to duplicate, and enter a battle and select the item option of the person with the item you wish to duplicate.  Then Scroll down to a blank space on the item list and press A to place a glove there, scroll back up to the equipped items then press A on the one you'll be duplicating, then press B to leave the screen.  Next, hold the L and R buttons to run from the battle, press X to see the subscreen, select Equip and the character who has the item, press A on empty spot the item used to occupy, then press A on the actual
item that's now in the items list. You will now see that your character has two of the selected item equipped.

http://www.romhacking.net/hacks/419/
