Mortal Kombat
Platform: Super Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: Gamepad
Genre: VS Fighter
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1993
Developer: Sculptured Software
Publisher: Acclaim
Players: 1 or 2 VS
_________________________
For ages it was a tournament of honor and glory. Noble warriors from around the world we invited to take part, each seeking to win the title of Grand Champion.

But that was a long time ago... Before the tournament was corrupted by the evil demon Shang Tsung, a warrior who took not only the lives of his opponents, but their very souls...

With the aid of his pupil, Goro, a hideous half-human dragon, Tsung began a domination of the contest which has lasted for centuries. Today, 500 years later, the contest begins anew as warriors once again gather to partake in Mortal Kombat.

Let The Tournament Begin!

--From the SNES Mortal Kombat instruction manual.

Overview:

The story isn't very important, but the fighting is. You start with the main menu that lets you choose between Tournament and Options. Tournament gets you to the action, and Options lets you set up the game to your liking. After selecting Tournament, you get to select between seven great fighters: Johnny Cage, Kano, Raiden, Liu Kang, Scorpion, Sub-Zero, and Sonya. The game goes through the ladder from a random playable character to the all-powerful Shang Tsung.

Mortal Kombat is a decent game that I really enjoyed, but I'm improving since the first time I played. The bad thing about it is that the blood was replaced with sweat because Nintendo used to have a policy that only allowed "family-friendly" games. The Genesis and arcade versions have blood in them. Fortunately, when the ESRB ratings started, all versions of MK2 and later have blood in them. 

Directions:

Fight to the bloody death in this start of a very popular series. During battle, you have to punch and kick the other guy to get his life down to red. On the final round, the winner can perform a fatality on the loser, which involves the winner performing a very violent act. If you want two players, the second player can press Start at the character selection screen.

Controls:

A Button - Low Kick
B Button - Low Punch
X Button - High Kick
Y Button - High Punch
L Button - Block
R Button - Block
Start Button - Start Game
Select Button - Nothing

Hints:

Change Sweat Into Blood
This is a Game Genie code. To use it press Escape, click on Cheat, and Add Code. Where it says "Enter Code", type in BDB4-DD07 (with the dash), put in a description, and click on "Add". Repeat for DDB4-DFA7 using the same description. Close the "Cheat" box in ZSNES and reset the game.

Tips:

Start with 10 Credits (Japanese version)
This code only works in the Japanese version that originally starts with 4 Credits. At the Acclaim logo screen when Goro appears, press Left, Up, Right, Up, Left, and Up. You will hear a sound right when the screen fades away after the code is entered correctly that allows you to start with 10 Credits.

Goro Glitch
Perform Rayden's fatality on the third endurance stage in a one player game. Goro will appear silver colored and flashing.

How to attack Goro without making him unfreeze
It's possible to hit Goro without making him unfreeze!  First, use Sub Zero's ice blast attack to freeze Goro. Now, quickly run up to Goro and do a few (3) sweeps. (Back + low kick) This attack does not make Goro unfreeze! However, do not be too greedy and try more than 3 sweeps on Goro as he can simply unfreeze by time.  To maximize damage after freezing Goro, sweep him 3 times and than do an Uppercut attack! (down + Hard Punch)

Reviewer: MethodOne
http://www.consoleclassix.com/snes/mortal_kombat.html
