Mortal Kombat II
Platform: Super Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: Gamepad
Genre: VS Fighter
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1994
Developer: Sculptured Software
Publisher: Acclaim
Players: 1 or 2 VS
_________________________
NOTHING, NOTHING CAN PREPARE YOU!

500 years ago, the shapeshifter Shang Tsung was banished from the Outworld to the Mother Realm (Earth) for his crimes. There, with the aid of his pupil Goro, a hideous half-human dragon, he was to atone for his crimes by unbalancing the furies of the realm, allowing his master Shao Kahn and his minions to enter the dominion and rule forever.

He was defeated.

He returned to Outworld a failure, facing execution at the hands of Shao Kahn, supreme ruler of the Outworld, the Astral Planes of Shokan and the surrounding kingdoms. With the apparent demise of Goro, his fate seemed sealed. But Tsung told Kahn of his plan for revenge, a plot so evil and twisted even Kahn was persuaded to grant him one final opportunity to redeem himself. He cleverly lured his adversaries to the bizarre Outworld where they would face a new challenge-- a tournament hosted by Shao Kahn himself.

Today, the Tournament Begins... Again!

--From the SNES Mortal Kombat 2 instruction manual.

Overview:

After his defeat in the first tournament, Shang Tsung crawls back to his master, Shao Kahn, and begs for his life. Shang Tsung tells his master of a new plan to take over Earth realm. Shao Kahn returns Shang Tsung's youth and calls forth to the realms to have another tournament, this time in Outworld. Now all the warriors gather and get ready to fight for their homes. Now it is time, once again, for MORTAL KOMBAT!!! (cue techno music)

Mortal Kombat 2 is the sensational sequel to the famous fighting game, with realistic graphics and fighting styles. They looked great on the SNES and every other console these games appeared on. Mortal Kombat was the first game to use real actors as the characters rather then using 8 or 16 bit graphics. The music in this game keeps your heart pumping and ready to fight. This game is highly popular and highly recommended for the fan of the fighting game.

Directions:

Much like the first game, Mortal Kombat 2 is an action packed fighting game that will keep you on the edge of your seat. Play one player and fight your way through to Shao Kahn and save the world, or play with a friend and beat the ever living snot out of each other. To get started is simple: just choose from one of the many playable characters there are to choose from, such as Baraka, Jax, Kitana, Kung Lao, Mileena, Johnny Cage, Liu Kang, Raiden, Reptile, Scorpion, Sub-zero, and Shang Tsung. Each one uses pretty much the same moves, except for their special moves which are usually some sort of projectile made by a combination of directions plus a high or low punch. Fight your way through all characters and the two bosses, Kintaro and Shao Kahn, to beat the game. So sit down, log in, and have fun.

Controls:

A Button - LOW KICK
B Button - LOW PUNCH
X Button - HIGH KICK
Y Button - HIGH PUNCH
L Button - GUARD
R Button - GUARD

Tips:

29 Kredits
At the Character Select screen, press Left, Up, Right, Down, Left + Select

Codes for fighters
At the Character Select screen press :

Fight Noob Saibot 
Left, Up, Down, Down, Right, Select

Fight Shao-Kahn 
Right, Up, Up, Right, Left + Select

Fight Kintaro 
Up, Down, Down, Right, Right + Select

Fight Smoke 
Up, Left, Up, Up, Right + Select

Fight Jade 
Up, Down, Down, Left, Right + Select

Disable Throws
After choosing your characters in 2-player mode, hold Down and High Punch on both controllers until the match
begins.

Extra Fatality Time
Press Up, Up, Left, Up, Down + Select at the character select screen. You will now have 15 seconds to do fatalities instead of five.

Near Invincibility and 1 Hit Opponent
At the character select screen, press Down, Up, Right, Up, Left + Select

Random Select
Hold up and press start at the character select screen

Super Damage
At the Character Select screen press Down, Up, Right, Up, Left + Select. You should hear a swishing sound if activated.

Team Battle Mode
At the start screen, press L + R + Start. You will access the hidden 4 vs. 4 team battle mode. This mode must be played with two players; the computer will not control any of the characters.

Unlockable Fights

Fight Jade 
At the match before the ?, defeat your opponent using  only the Low Kick button

Fight Noob Saibot 
Win 50 matches in a row 

Fight Smoke 
At the Portal stage, do uppercuts until Dan Forden's face appears in the bottom right corner and says 'Toasty', then hold Down and press Start

Destroy the Logo
Hold L + R as you turn the game on, and watch Shao-Kahn and Kintaro wreck the Acclaim logo

Fall off spikes.
Hold the down button on both controllers after doing the spike fatality to fall off the spikes.

http://www.consoleclassix.com/snes/mortal_kombat_2.html
