NBA Jam: Tournament Edition
Platform: Super Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: Gamepad
Genre: Sports, Basketball
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1995
Developer: Iguana Entertainment
Publisher: Acclaim
Players: 1 to 4 CO-OP, VS
_________________________
JAM IT HOME!

Cut loose, drive for the net, and give it all you've got! With NBA JAM TOURNAMENT EDITION, you're experiencing wham, bam hoop action like you've never seen before!

NBA JAM TOURNAMENT EDITION lets you wham it and slam it with rim-rocking superstars like Scottie Pippen, Patrick Ewing, Dominique Wilkins, Hakeem Olajuwon, Chris Mullin and Karl Malone! They're all here: the greatest superstars of the sport that has become the greatest game on the globe!

Blast off with the Rockets and the Blazers, display some roundball Magic and Heat, fly high with the Hawks and the Hornets! All 27 NBA teams are represented as you take to the boards in one-on-one, two-on-two, or two-on-one competition!

Prepare for full-scale competition with a Jam-packed practice session! Hit the hardwood with slams and turbo-charged Jams! Take the three-point shot from the far end of the court, or Jam it home from under your opponent's net!

You think you know the game? Think again! With NBA JAM TOURNAMENT EDITION you're entering a whole new world of rim-ramming, hard-hitting hoop excitement!

--From the SNES NBA Jam Tournament Edition instruction manual.

Overview:

From the creator of NBA Jam comes NBA Jam Tournament Edition! Now you get your basketball greatness with more players and features, including powerups!

The sequel of NBA Jam is better than ever, now with new features to increase it's replay value. Makes me wish the emulator supports multiplayer. Four players, two teams, two computers.

Directions:

Play one of 28 teams as you shoot and dunk your way through the sequel of the best arcade basketball ever! 

Controls:

A Button - Shoot(Offense) / Block(Defense)
B Button - Shoot(Offense) / Block(Defense)
X Button - Pass(Offense) / Steal(Defense)
Y Button - Pass(Offense) / Steal(Defense)
L Button - Turbo
R Button - Turbo
Start Button - Pause / Unpause
Select Button - n/a

Hints:

Match-Up Codes
When the Tonights Match-Up screen apears, put in one of the following code combinations:

Left, Right, A, B, B, A - Better Dunks
A, B, Up, A, B, Up, Down - Better Offense
Up, Up, Down, Down, B - Display Shot Percentages
Up, Down, Left, Right, Left, Down - Easy 3-pointers
Down, Right, A, B, A, Right, Down - Easy Blocks
Left, Left, Left, Left, A, Right - Easy Steals
B, B, B, A, Down, Down, Up, Left - Infinite Turbo
Right, Up, Down, Right, Down, Up - No Goaltending
Down, Right, Right, B, A, Left - On Fire Status
Up, Up, Up, Up, Left, Left, Left, Left, A, A - Push Opponent and both fall
Up, Up, Up, Up, Left, Left, Left, Left, A, B - Push Opponent and teammate falls
Down, Up, Down, Right, Up, A, A, A, A, - Down Rainbow Shot
A, A, A, A, A, Right, Right, Right, Right, Right - Slippery Mode
Up, Up, Up, Up, Left, Left, Left, Left, B, A - Speed Mode
Right, Right, Left, Right, B, B, Right - Strong Mode
Up, Right, Right, Left, Left, A, Down, Left, Left, Right, B - Teleporting Passes 

Tips:
Codes
Enter the following codes at the Tonights Match-Up screen:

Characters

Air Dog 
At the name-entry screen, place the cursor over the letter 'A', then hold Start and press Y. Put the cursor over 'I', and press A. Move over to 'R', then hold Start and press B.

Chow Chow 
At the name-entry screen, place the cursor over the letter 'A', then press A. Put the cursor over 'M', then hold Start and press A. Put the cursor over 'X', then hold Start and press Y.

Blaze 
At the name-entry screen, place the cursor over the letter 'B', then hold Start and press Y. Put the cursor over 'L', and press A. Go over to 'Z', then hold Start and press Y.

Kirby 
At the name-entry screen, place the cursor over the letter 'C', then hold Start and press B. Put the cursor over 'K', then press A. Highlight 'the square blank space', then hold Start and press Y.

Kabuki 
At the name-entry screen, place the cursor over the letter 'D', then press A. Put the cursor over 'A', then hold Start and press B. Put the cursor over 'N', then hold Start and press A.

Snake 
At the name-entry screen, place the cursor over the letter 'G', then hold Start and press A. Put the cursor over 'O', then hold Start and press Y.  Highlight 'F', then hold Start and press B.

Scooter Pie 
At the name-entry screen, place the cursor over the letter 'H', then hold Start and press A. Put the cursor over 'T', then press A. Go over to the letter 'P', then hold Start and press Y.

Heavy D 
At the name-entry screen, place the cursor over the letter 'H', then hold Start and press A. Put the cursor over 'V', and press A. Finally, put the cursor over 'Y', then hold Start and press B.

Falcus 
At the name-entry screen, place the cursor over the letter 'J', then hold Start and press A. Put the cursor over 'F', and press A. Highlight the 'blank square space', then hold Start and press Y.

Jazzy Jeff 
At the name-entry screen, place the cursor over the letter 'J', then hold Start and press Y. Put the cursor over 'A', then hold Start and press A. Move the cursor over to the 'Z', then hold Start a nd press A.

Kid Silk 
At the name-entry screen, place the cursor over the letter 'K', then press A. Put the cursor over 'S', then hold Start and press B. Go over to 'K', then hold Start and press Y.

Brutah 
At the name-entry screen, place the cursor over the letter 'L', then hold Start and press A. Put the cursor over 'G', then hold Start and press B. Put the cursor over 'N', and press A.

Muskett 
At the name-entry screen, place the cursor over the letter 'M', then hold Start and press B. Put the cursor over 'C', then hold Start and press B. Highlight 'M', then hold Start and press Y.

Moosekat 
At the name-entry screen, place the cursor over the letter 'M', then hold Start and press B. Put the cursor over 'P', then hold Start and press Y. Move over to 'F', and then press A.

Hill 
At the name-entry screen, place the cursor over the letter 'N', then hold Start and press A. Put the cursor over 'D', then hold Start and press B. Put the cursor over 'H', then hold Start and press A.

Prince Charles 
At the name-entry screen, place the cursor over the letter 'R', then hold Start and press B. Now, put the cursor over 'O', then hold Start and press A.  Put the cursor over 'Y' and press A.

Weasel 
At the name-entry screen, place the cursor over the letter 'R', then hold Start and press B. Put the cursor over 'A', then hold Start and press A. Put the cursor over 'Y', then hold Start and press Y.

Frank Thomas 
At the name-entry screen, place the cursor over the letter 'S', then hold Start and press B. Put the cursor over 'O' and press A. Highlight 'X', then hold Start and press A.

Fresh Prince/Will Smith 
At the name-entry screen, place the cursor over the letter 'W', then hold Start and press Y. Now, move the cursor over to the 'I', then hold Start and press B. Finally, highlight 'L' and just press A.

Facime 
At the name-entry screen, place the cursor over the letter 'X', then hold Start and press B. Put the cursor over 'Y', then hold Start and press B. Put the cursor over 'Z', then hold Start and press A.

Adrock
At the name-entry screen, place the flashing cursor over the letter 'A', then press A. Put the cursor over 'D', then hold Start and press Y.  Highlight (place the cursor over) 'R', then hold Start and press B.

Jay Moon 
At the name-entry screen, place the flashing cursor over the letter 'J', and press A. Put the cursor over 'A', then hold Start and press A. Put the cursor over 'Y', then hold Start and press B.

John Carlton
At the name-entry screen, place the flashing cursor over the letter 'J', then hold Start and press Y. Put the cursor over 'M', then hold Start and press Y. Highlight 'C', then hold Start and press B.

Mark Turmell 
At the name-entry screen, place the flashing cursor over the letter 'M', then hold Start and press A. Put the cursor over 'J' and press A. Highlight 'T', then hold Start and press A.

MCA 
At the name-entry screen, place the flashing cursor over the letter 'M', then hold Start and press B. Put the cursor over 'C', then hold Start and press B. Highlight 'A', and press A.

Mike D
At the name-entry screen, place the flashing cursor over the letter 'M', then hold Start and press Y. Put the cursor over 'K' and press A. Highlight 'D', then hold Start and press Y.

Randall Cunningham 
At the name-entry screen, place the flashing cursor over the letter 'P' and press A. Put the cursor over 'H', then hold Start and press A. Highlight 'I', then hold Start and press Y.

Jamie Rivett 
At the name-entry screen, place the flashing cursor over the letter 'R', then press A. Put the cursor over 'J', then hold Start and press A. Highlight 'R', then hold Start and press Y.

Shawn Liptak 
At the name-entry screen, place the flashing cursor over the letter 'S', then press A. Put the cursor over 'L', then hold Start and press B. Highlight 'the square blank space', then hold Start and press B.

Tony Goskie 
At the name-entry screen, place the flashing cursor over the letter 'T', then hold Start and press B. Put the cursor over 'W', and press A. Highlight 'G', then hold Start and press A.

Sal Divita 
At the name-entry screen, place the flashing cursor over the letters 'S', then hold Start and press A.  Put the cursor over 'A', then hold Start and press Y. Finally, highlight 'L' and press A.

Crunch the mascot 
To be able to play as Crunch, enter the following code:  Place the cursor over the letter 'C, ' then hold Start and press A. Put the cursor over 'R, ' then hold Start and press B. Put the cursor over 'N' and just press A.

Hilary Clinton 
To get Hilary Clinton as your player, go to the name-entry screen and enter the following code: Place the cursor over the letter 'H', then press A.  Highlight (place the cursor over) 'C', hold Start, then press B. Highlight the 'blank square space' a

Charlotte Hornets mascot
To get the Charlotte Hornet Mascot, Hugo the hornet, as your player, enter the following code: Place the cursor over the letter 'H' and then press A. Now put the cursor over 'G, ' then hold Start and press Y.  Put the cursor over 'O, ' then hold Start

Chicago Bulls mascot
To get the Chicago Bulls mascot (Benny the bull) as a playable character, enter your name as follows: put the cursor over the letter 'B, ' then hold Start and press B. Next, put the cursor over 'N' and press A. Finally, put the cursor over 'Y, ' hold

Bill Clinton 
To play as the ex-president, enter the following code at the name-entry screen: Place the cursor over the letter 'C', then hold Start and press A.  Highlight 'I' and press A. Highlight 'C', then hold Start and press B.

Larry Bird 
To play as the NBA legend, go to the name-entry screen and do the following: Place the flashing cursor over the letter 'B', then hold Start and press A.  Put the cursor over 'R', then hold Start and press Y.  Highlight 'D', then hold Start and press A

Goaltend the final shot
After the buzzer rings to end any quarter of play, you can goaltend the final shot.

Reviewer: Nestea
http://www.consoleclassix.com/snes/nba_jam_tournament_edition.html
