Pit-Fighter
Platform: Super Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: Gamepad
Genre: VS Fighter
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1992
Developer: THQ
Publisher: THQ
Players: 1 or 2 VS
_________________________
The player begins Pit-Fighter by choosing one of the three playable characters, who all have different moves, speed, and power. As many as three people can play at a time, but there will be extra opponents to fight during any of this game's 15 different matches.

Every third fight is known as a Grudge Match. In a Grudge Match, the player must fight against a CPU controlled clone of his or her fighter (if playing alone) or the other players in a multiplayer game. Each player has three "knockdowns" - getting knocked down three times eliminates them from the Grudge Match, the winner is the last man standing. This match plays more like a bonus round, in that there is only results are gaining or failing to gain bonus money, losing the Grudge Match does not eliminate a player.

The final battle, the "Championship Match", is between the player and the mysterious entity that taunts between matches every once in a while, the Masked Warrior. If more than one person is playing the game before this match, they must fight each other to the death until only one becomes victorious and can fight him.

The player must jump, punch, and kick their opponent until his/her energy runs out. If the player presses all three of the buttons at a time, the character will perform a "super move".

Sometimes during matches the player will come across foreign objects such as knives, crates, sticks, motorcycles, and bar stools that can be thrown at you or your opponent. The player may also come across a power-up known as the "power pill". If the player or the opponent grab this item, one will become temporarily stronger and take less damage from hits.

Sometimes even the crowd will interfere in the fights. Two characters, known as Knife Man and Knife Woman, will come out of the crowd and stab the player with their daggers. The player can take these nuisances out with one hit. Sometimes there is also a fat bearded man with a stick. If the player knocks him down, the player can take the stick and use it against the current opponent.

The audience will also push any fighter that ends up among them, and stays there more than a few seconds. They will be forced back into the fighting area.

Comedic Value:

Fans of this game consider it a classic, often due not only due to groundbreaking technology used to model characters but also due to an unquantifiable fun factor that is derived from the high level of (Possibly unintentional) campiness or tongue-in-cheek humor present in the game. Whether intentional or not the game characters represent many over-the-top stereotypes. For instance Kato, the martial artist, let's out a cry much like Bruce Lee's. The introductory movie at the beginning of the game features him breaking wooden boards and standing on a cliff overlooking a sunset much like what's seen in various martial arts movies. Kato also bows after performing a special combo. The bow takes so long that the enemy has time to get up and perform a move or combo which is frustrating for some but hilarious to others as bowing is at times a source of ridicule in Western media. 

Buzz, an over-muscled jock and former pro wrestler wears eye paint, can be seen lifting weights in the introductory movie and after a special move he swings from side-side while flexing his biceps and saying "The best!". Due to poor sound quality it sounds comically like "Da Big!". While this pose is much shorter than Kato's it can sometimes lead to the enemy performing a special move of their own. For instance while Buzz is posing an enemy such as Chainman Eddie can get up, put him in a choke and punch him across the room.

The game features a weird collision detection as character's bounce incredibly high and far after hitting the ground and can cause damage to other characters while bouncing off the ground. Chainman Eddie's head ram move sometimes causes the character to fly unrealistically fast and far to the point where the character slams against the games invisible border or lands off-screen somewhere in the crowd. If timed right and if both characters are in the right position a special move can result in both characters flying through the air while going through the animation of a special move. Also if timed right the audience may push a character at the same time that a throw or special such as Buzz's suplex are being performed. This results in both characters going through the animation but Buzz also slides across the screen and the enemy is suspended in mid-air by an unseen force before slamming into the ground.

The element of camp again comes into play when examining several outrageous character designs and traits. Chainman Eddie seems to be the most eggregious offender. His outfit is comprised of two chains wrapped over his shoulders and across his body in an x pattern, no shirt and a pair of very short white shorts which look like large briefs or an adult diaper. One fan-made website is partially dedicated to the idea that a Pitfighter sequel should include Chainman Eddie as the focal point. A pseduo final stage requires the player to beat two Chainman Eddie's at once. If the player dies, the character model disappears from sight but the two Eddie's attack the invisible character and often wind up hurting or killing one another which causes the boss in the background to react with outrage and threaten to kill you despite the fact that you're already dead. His taunt consists of him putting his hands on his hips and guffawing like a mad scientist leaving him open to attack. 

The pseudo boss stage starts with both Eddie's chained in the background. They escape or break their shackles, jump onto the playable area and guffaw. The player can take advantage of this moment and smash a barrel over one of the Eddie's head while the other laughs idiotically.

Almost every character possesses a taunt or sound byte which provides senseless humor. For instance the main boss known simply as The Warrior pronounces "You Die!" at several points in the game, snorts like a pig, and let's out a weird garbled sounding squeel. Chainman Eddie has the aforementioned guffaw. Mad Miles taunts "Come on punk!", spits on the player or, when he gets beaten badly enough, exclaims "I'm mad!" while pulling out a knife. After performing a special, Buzz flexes and exclaims "The best!", Kato let's out a Bruce Lee scream before bowing very slowly and Ty punches excitedly into the air while yelling "Yea!". The audience also yells random nonsense which includes "Get over here.", "Yo! Brotha!" "Stop it!" and "Alright!", along with other indecipherible taunts and phrases.

In am online review of the movie Pit Fighter, which was not an adaptation of the game, one writer lamented the absence of C.C. Rider, a character in the game while another admitted that he mainly watched the movie hoping it would be an adaptation of the game.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pit-Fighter
