Tecmo Secret of the Stars
Platform: Super Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: Gamepad
Genre: Role Playing Game
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1995
Developer: Tecmo
Publisher: Tecmo
Players: 1
_________________________
The main character Ray and his party of Aqutallion warriors quest to find and destroy Homncruse, the evil power threatening their world. Ray begins his journey alone on a tiny island, but eventually he meets his friends and fellow Aqutallion Warriors, Tina, Cody, Leona, and Dan, and even creates a town for the victims of Homncruse's evil to live. Villains encountered along tend to range from comical, such as Cat Boo and Badbad with his lackeys the Badmen, to the elite generals of evil of Homncruse, Dram, Booth, Gara, and Godem.

Initially all the teens are considered Pennon, the lowest rank of warrior. Before they can destroy Homncruse each of them must undergo a trial at their respective temples hidden around the world to receive the secondary powers of Banalet. Dan is an exception because he is the descendant of the prosperous Wise Man clan of Aqutallion. When Ray, Tina, Cody, and Leona achieve the status of Banalet and are united by the powers of Dan, Aqutallion is reborn and the group gains incredible powers.

The Aqutallions are not alone. 11 members of Kustera can be recruited to fight for the young warriors in their place for a time being. The Kustera are mostly meant to serve as a supplement to the Aqutallions, but their role in the story is vital to its progression. From the same temples where the Aqutallions gain their Banalet status, there is a Kustera only warp icon that sends the group to a dungeon where great treasures are hidden.

Gameplay:

The battle system follows the traditional RPG battle system where the party trades blows with opponents in simple turn-based fashion, the player selecting all commands for the following round of combat and then watching the results, such as in the Dragon Quest games. Play switches between two parties throughout the game. Certain areas are inaccessible without the right party.

Tips:

Optional Kustera members
Several Kusteras are found throughout the game that are not normally obtained through the main story. Here is
how to get them.  

Ben
In Decatas, talk to the woman in the rightmost house  in the group of three. Find Ben in the nearby bar in the main district.

Evelyn 
In Elekees, find her in a house near the entrance.

Ryu 
After defeating Badbad and using the Dogpill, he  is in a house in Beegees. Talk to him and he will join.

Shark 
After getting Dan, find Shark in the house southwest  of Bonzley.

Max money for Kustera
On some game files, you are able to obtain max money for Kustera! First, you must be at Decatas with your Aqutallion party (ideally, right after Morgan gets you into the town). Swap to the Kustera party, and walk to Decatas, but DO NOT FIGHT IN ANY BATTLES. If you encounter an enemy, run away. When you get to Decatas, use Morgan's hole to get inside, then walk inside the building with Uncle Save. Talk to the other person behind the counter, and they will offer to bribe the guards away from the front gate. Ordinarily, this will cost 1000G, but on some occasions, no money will be deducted but the guards will still be gone, and on other occasions, Kustera will be left with 9, 999, 999G! It does not always work, so do not worry if it does not work for you the first time you try it.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secret_of_the_Stars
