Skyblazer
Platform: Super Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: Gamepad
Genre: Action, Platformer, Side-Scrolling
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1994
Developer: Ukiyotei
Publisher: Sony Imagesoft
Players: 1
_________________________
Before the dawn of history, in an age when great sorcerers walked the lands and mystic creatures abounded, the world existed in a constant state of turmoil and war.

The evil Ashura and his powerful warlords waged an eternal war to crush the Mystic Pantheon and stamp out the light of reason once and for all.

Eventually a great sorcerer, Sky-Lord, arose and defeated Ashura, banishing him from the realm forever. Centuries passed, cities rose and fell and eventually even the great deeds of the Mystic Pantheon and the evil Ashura passed into legend.

Until one day, a gifted apprentice sorcerer inadvertently freed Ashura from imprisonment. One by one Ashura began to capture and irrevocably transform the descendants of the Mystic Pantheon, making them his evil warlords.

As the last free descendant, you are Sky, set upon a quest to free the young sorceress Arianna and face Ashura in mortal combat to end his tyrannical rule once and for all.

--From the SNES SkyBlazer instruction manual.

Overview:

Sky is a very powerful, strong warrior. His kingdom has been taken over by the Devil and his partner, Raglan. They took the mighty sorceress princess with the help of Raglan's strongest minion, Ashura. Sky now must save the princess and stop these evil minions!

Directions:

This game is a sidesscrolling action platform game. You can use different attack combos, such as punching and kicking. While in the air, you can kick, too! You'll eventually get to a boss, which you'll have to fight. (Duh!) If you beat the bosses, you can gain new spells, such as healing, lightning, and others! Collect the diamonds, also. Why? Collect 100 diamonds to get an extra life. When going to a new continent, you get to go to a bonus stage, which takes place in the sky!

Controls:  

A Button - No use
B Button - Jump
X Button - Use magic
Y Button - Punch/Kick (push rapidly to kick)
L Button - Change between spells
R Button - Change between spells
Start Button - Pause/Unpause
Select Button - No use

Hints:

Last Level With 30 Lives
Go to the password screen. There, you have to match the colored squares. Then press Start 

Tips:

Last level code
To go to the last level with the bonus stage completed, enter:

Great Tower complete:

0 T T 0
T X T -
X T 0 0
T X T 0

Note:
0 = Circular objects
T = Triangular objects
X = X-shaped objects

Caverns of Shirol shortcut
In the second room after riding the gondola up and down the large hill covered in spikes, there is a ledge with a small red potion. Walk up to the corner, crouch, and you will continue walking under the hill.  Go through the door, and ride the gondolas across to the other end. You will emerge on a ledge at the end of the third room, right before the boss 

Easy unlimited lives trick
In the third 'room' of the Lair of Kharyon stage, go with the water's flow clockwise until you reach the bottom part of the room. Once you do, swim up as far as you can, and the wall should stop you and push you upwards to a doorway. In the next room, swim all the way to the right, then swim upwards and grab the 1-UP.

Now, leave the room via the door right next to the 1-UP and then head back through the door. The 1-UP reappears! You can do this trick until you have 99 Lives, and then return to the stage later in the game and do it again if needed!

Hidden bonus stages
Once you've beaten the 'Gateway of Eternal Storms' level, go to the level's icon on the map and press up.  You'll get another flight bonus stage, a password hut, and a difficult extra level.

Temple Infernus Shortcut to boss
In the first room, go to the right, taking out enemies along the way. In second room, do the same, but do NOT go to the next room. About halfway through the room, (after the first green moving block and fire pit) there will be a platform at the top with a magic restore potion. To get there, the easiest way is to jump on the second green block as it moves toward you, and then use that to jump up to the platform. When you get the potion, press and hold DOWN to crouch and then, while crouching, go to the right. You will crawl through the wall and into a secret part of the room. Going right will teleport you into a room with two enemies that crawl along the walls; you can either dodge them or kill them with magic. The only exit to the room is in the upper left corner. It will take you directly to the boss.

NOTE: When you first enter the boss room, the health and magic bars will look like they have the max amount but are empty, and the lives and crystals will both be x99. When you first get hit or use magic, however, everything will change back to normal.

Reviewer: LinkOfHyrule
http://www.consoleclassix.com/snes/skyblazer.html
