Star Fox
Alternative title: Star Wing
Platform: Super Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA, Europe
Media: Cartridge
Controller: Gamepad
Genre: Flight Simulator
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1993
Developer: Nintendo/Argonaut Software
Publisher: Nintendo
Players: 1
_________________________
Origin of the Lylatian Conflict

The Lylat solar system, located near the center of the Milky Way galaxy, is made up of several bountiful planets. No fewer than three of these worlds were home to civilizations teeming with industrious inhabitants. The other planets in the system provided boundless natural resources. The comfortable lifestyle enjoyed by the Lylatians was the envy of the galaxy until the coming of the evil Emperor Andross.

Emperor Andross was once known as Doctor Andross, a scientific genius who worked at an advanced lab on Corneria, the fourth planet in the Lylat system. Every since his childhood, Andross brilliance outshone that of other children. As an adult, Dr. Andross began developing a power engine based on hyper-spatial energy. Selfish and blinded by ambition, he repeatedly conducted dangerous experiments in the heart of Corneria most populated city. After many warnings from the planet ruling council, he was finally banished from the planet for endangering the inhabitants of Corneria.

Out of sight, out of mind. The inhabitants of Corneria soon forgot the menace of Dr. Andross. One day, however, Corneria small defense force detected some unusual happenings on Venom, the first planet in the Lylat system. Strange unidentified flying objects were monitored maneuvering above the planet in large numbers. It was not long before the self appointed Emperor Andross, who had fled to Venom, declared war on Corneria.

The planet Venom had been completely remade by Emperor Andross into a gigantic military base. Andross hoped that with his military power, he could soon control all the planets in the Lylat system. General Pepper, the commanding officer of Corneria defense force, decided to dispatch the super-high-performance combat ship ARWING to the defense of the planet, even though it was in the prototype stage of development. Because of the urgency of the threat to Corneria, however, he did not have time to train pilots for these advanced fighters.

We need the Star Fox Team!! This is the call sent out by General Pepper. You are Fox McCloud, leader of the Star Fox team, a group of adventurers with outstanding combat skill. Your mission is to penetrate the defenses of the planet Venom and defeat the forces led by Emperor Andross. Your ability to maneuver the ARWING fighter will make the difference between the return of peace to the Lylat system and the fall of Corneria to the evil Emperor. As team leader, you are also responsible for the safe return of your Star Fox teammates.

--From the SNES Star Fox instruction manual.

Overview:

The Starfox team, Fox McCloud, Falco Lombardi, Peppy Hare, and Slippy Toad live in Corneria. All was at piece. Until Dr. Andross, a very intelligent man, started doing dangerous experiments, which got him banished to Venom. Angered, Dr. Andross made Venom rage war on Cornernia. The Cornerian army leader, Pepper, called the StarFox team to get to Venom and destroy Andross before Corneria was destroyed!

Star Fox was a great idea for a game, but I think the SNES lacked the capability needed. The Nintendo 64 version is still one of my favorite games today. These two games were the same except for the graphics and a few other exceptions. This version is still a lot of fun to play, so give it a try if you like flight sims. 

Directions:

Classic flight sim game here. You must destroy enemies by shooting them to bits. After completing each level, you get a choice of 3 levels, each with a different difficulty level. Middle is easy, Upper is medium, and Down is hard. You must face a boss at the end of each level, so be ready! Have fun, gamers! 

Controls:

A Button - Nova Bomb
B Button - Brake
X Button - Boost
Y Button - Blaster
L Button - Roll
R Button - Roll
Select Button - Change View

Tips:

Polygon View Mode
At the continue screen after you lose your last ship, you can play with the polygons on the screen. Here are the controls.

Controller 1: 
Left and Right-Rotate object horizontally
Up and Down-Rotate object vertically
L button-Zoom in
R button-Zoom out
X button-Stop rotation
A button-Hold it down while rotating to 'draw' with the object. Release the button to clear the screen.

Controller 2:
Up, Down, Left, Right, SELECT, START, Y, or B-Changes to a different object

Black Hole
To enter the black hole, a secret area on the map with no apparent way in, you must enter Level 1-2 (Asteroid
Belt) and keep going until you find a spinning asteroid bar. Hit the center of the asteroid bar just before you hit it. Do it with the next 2. If you hit all 3 bars right before you hit them (fly through where the breakable asteroid was....) A Laughing asteroid will appear. Shoot it repeatedly to open the gateway to the Black Hole.  There are three level warps in the Black Hole. Fly through and look around this Lost ship graveyard

Enter another dimension
Choose level three, then go to the asteroid belt and keep shooting the second big asteroid until it is destroyed. A bird-like object will fly out. Do not shoot it. Ram into it to travel 'out of this dimension'. Shoot the paper-like objects. The boss does not have a life meter, just icons (until they display three 7s) Shoot 'THE END' letters until they are in
the right position. The letters will be orange when they are correct.

Reviewer: Adrian
http://www.consoleclassix.com/snes/star_fox.html
