Strike Gunner S.T.G.
Alternative title: Super Strike Gunner
Platform: Super Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA, Europe
Media: Cartridge
Controller: Gamepad
Genre: Shoot 'em Up, Vertical
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1992
Developer: Athena
Publisher: NTVIC
Players: 1
_________________________
In the last years of the 20th century, the nations of the world have united to dismantle their massive arsenals of nuclear doom. With the promise of permanent world peace finally at hand, only a madman would still harbor dreams of world domination. Such a madman is the dictator of Sovinia, a small but cunning rebel nation.

In his insane lust for power, he has joined forces with a huge, hostile war force from beyond this planet, armed with weapons more powerful than anything ever seen before by man. The Allied Countries of Earth try to resist, but without nuclear weapons, their efforts are futile. By 2008, most of the planet lies in ruins; then, in an ironic twist of treachery, the alien forces turn against their ally, and set out to complete their conquest and colonization of Earth

Now, with the survival of the human race at stake, the allied countries join forces with the rebel dictatorship in a last-ditch effort to drive out the invaders. At their secret fortress deep in the Amazon Jungle, the greatest scientists of Earth carefully analyze the alien weaponry, and develop the weapon to end all weapons: Strike Gunner. With time running out, and few resources remaining, only two can be built; but those two can combine at will into one superfighter of astonishing power. With an awesome arsenal of offensive and defensive devices at your command, and your own unmatched courage and skill as a fighter pilot, the Earth may yet be saved.

~From the Manual

Gameplay:

The player goes through various levels and stages, usually based around certain environmental elements such as snow or desert, and faces numerous types of enemies. The levels feature wave after wave of normal enemies ranging from helicopters to turrets that usually only require one or two hits to destroy. At various points in each level, the player faces a boss vehicle, such as a giant airship or an enormous desert tank. At certain points, a stealth bomber (or in later levels, a space shuttle or capsule) will appear to airdrop the player laser power-ups, recharge special weapons, or give a speed boost.

Using the Strike Gunner, the player is armed with a dual red laser weapon that can be upgraded several times to a more powerful blue laser. In addition to this weapon, the player chooses a second, more powerful "special weapon" with a limited charge before they begin the mission. There are 15 advanced weapons to pick from such as the devastating MegaBeam Cannon or AntiAir Mines (see below for a complete list). This allows for a strategic approach to the game because certain weapons are more effective on certain missions. The "special weapon" has various limitations, depending on which one is being used; for example, the MegaBeam Cannon is extremely powerful, but only lasts less five seconds and can only be used once per charge.

The game supports two players as well, with two Strike Gunners (Player 1 is Jane, red, and Player 2 is Mark, blue) facing the same missions as single player. This adds another layer of strategy to the game because each player can choose their own "special weapons" and utilize a deadly combination of timed special attacks. Players can link their aircraft in two different ways by pressing the X or Y button.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strike_Gunner_S.T.G.
