Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars
Platform: Super Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: Gamepad
Genre: Role Playing Game
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1996
Developer: Square Co. Ltd.
Publisher: Nintendo
Players: 1
_________________________
One day, while visiting Mario, Princess Toadstool was picking flowers in the garden ...

Suddenly, out of nowhere, Bowser appeared and grabbed the Princess again! (Like you'd expect anyone else to?) Mario, hearing Toadstool's scream for help, sped off alone toward Bowser's Keep. After Mario trounced Bowser for the millionth time (this time they fought on one of Bowser's chandeliers), everyone felt Bowser's Keep beginning to shake!

A HUGE sword crashed into Bowser's Keep! What's gonna happen now?

--From the SNES Super Mario RPG instruction manual.

Overview:

Super Mario RPG is a lot of fun to play. The first Mario game to be an RPG is really saying something about the popularity of RPG's. It's a little weird at first, but once you get used to it, it's a lot of fun. There are a lot of special moves to learn and a lot of bad guys that need killing. Super Mario RPG is a lot of fun if you are a fan of RPG's or Mario. If you fall into that criteria, and chances are you do, then check this game out. 

Directions:

Super Mario RPG is more hands on than other RPGs. You HAVE to learn how to time attacks or you will find the game very difficult. You can also jump in Mario fashion around the towns/houses/dungeons. Toad will teach you everything you need to know.

Controls:

A Button - Talk/Accept
B Button - Jump/Cancel/Etc. Command
X Button - Menu/Use Items
Y Button - Run/Special
L Button - Switch to Stereo or Mono on File Select Screen
R Button - Switch to Stereo or Mono on File Select Screen
Start Button - Start
Select Button - Switch to Stereo or Mono on File Select Screen

Tips:

Hidden command
Notice: this only works in the SFC/Japanese version.  Open the menu screen (by pressing X), then press Down, Up, Right, Left, Select, Start, Select, Start, B.  Kinopio (Toad) pops up and asks to see your status, giving you little tips and tricks.

Secret Items
Attack Scarf 
You must perform 30 consecutive Super Jumps in battle.  After you do that, talk to the dog in Monstro Town that counts the number of times you jumped.

Bright Card 
In Booster's Tower, after you beat Land's End, travel through the tower some, You will see Knife Guy, win his game 8 times and he will give you this.

Fertilizer 
After you beat Nimbus Palace, there will be a secret path on the right of Nimbus Town. Talk to the Shy Guy.

Getting the Super Suit 
You must perform 100 consecutive Super Jumps on an enemy in battle. After you do that, talk to the dog in Monstro Town that counts your jumps.

Lamb's Lure
Use the Mystery Egg 10 times with the Princess, she must have the B'Tub Ring equipped.

Sheep Attack 
Use Lamb's Lure 48 times in battle. 

Star Egg 
Win Grate Guy's 'Look the other way' game 100 times. It does NOT have to be in a row.

Troopa Pin 
In Land's End, on the Troopa Jumping game, if you get 12 seconds or under, you will earn this.

2D Mario from Super Mario Bros. 1
One time only in the game you can change into a 2D Mario walking around on a 3D landscape. It is pretty cool. The image turns sideways when you turn diagonal.  In booster tower, I think it's right after the room with a switch that opens a passage of booster pass.  There is a large curtain near the exit. Go in the right side and coming out the right side wont do it but going in the right and coming out the left causes the transformation.

Cameo: F-Zero and Star Fox
In the uppermost right corner, you can see F-Zero and Star Fox racers in Hinopio's shop on Barrel Volcano.

Cameo: Link and Samus
These two popular characters play no significant role in the game.

To find Link, return to the Rosa Inn (same place where you played with that Gaz girl) after you find the 2nd star. He'll be upstairs sleeping in the bed. Try to talk to him and the Zelda Mystery noise plays.

To find Samus, go to the Mushroom Kingdom after securing the 5th star. Go into the castle, then to the guest room. Samus will be sleeping in the bed. If you talk to her, she says she's resting for Mother brain.

Samus Cameo 2
When you reach Booster Tower and get to the top where you talk to ome-what spoiler character through the door. After this conversation look in the box where Booster and his Snifits are talking. There is a samus action figure.

Easy Level Up's
Look for a place where a star is next to a save point.  Save, then get the star, level up as many times as you can. Then die (in game) and you will still have your levels, as well as be able to use the star again :-).

Easy Level up

Geno 9999 attack trick
After you acquire Geno, put him in your party. After he learn the move Geno Whirl, enter battle. Use Geno Whirl and a tornado like wind will come onto the screen. Push Y right before it leaves the screen for 9999 attack points.
Note: You will hear a crackling sound if you did it right. This does not work on all enemies (ie bosses)

Infinite Money
When you are on the path going towards Rosa town, get to the section where all of the ShyGuys are standing on
top of the treasure boxes. Go to the bottom right side of the screen to the exit. Hit the box next to the door and get a few coins (but do not empty it, leave some in) then go through the exit. As soon as you go through the exit, go back through and hit the box more times (still don't empty it). Then just repeat this until you have a many coins as you want, it won't go empty!

Mushroom Castle's hidden box
Many who search for all of the Hidden Treasure Boxes  are stumped by the one in the Mushroom Kingdom Castle.  Ordinarily, you can find any hidden Treasure box at multiple points in the game. The one in Mushroom castle, however, has only 1 opportunity, and that is at the beginning of the game. On your first visit to the castle, be sure to jump on Toad's head and ride him to where the door is. You can now jump onto the ledge right above the door and find a Treasure box that can't be found at any other point in the game.

Reviewer: Adrain
http://www.consoleclassix.com/snes/super_mario_rpg.html
