Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island
Platform: Super Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: Gamepad
Genre: Platformer
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1995
Developer: Nintendo
Publisher: Nintendo
Players: 1
_________________________
This story happened a long long time ago... This is a story about a baby and Yoshi...

A stork hurries across the dusky, pre-dawn sky. In his bill, he supports a pair of twins who are to be delivered to their parents as soon as possible.

Suddenly, something appears between the clouds and races towards the stork with blinding speed!

'SSCCRREEEEECH!!!', it screams. 'These babies are mine!'

Snatching only one baby, the creature vanishes into the darkness from whence it came.

Oh no! The second baby falls undetected towards the open sea...

The kidnapper is Kamek, an evil Magikoopa from the Koopa Kingdom. Having divined last night that twin babies born this morning will bring disaster to the Koopa family, he arranged for an early morning ambush. Returning to his castle, Kamek realizes that he missed the other baby. He orders his toadies.

'Go forth and find the other baby!! Don't let his parents get him back! Ever!!'

Meanwhile, the second baby does not fall into the sea after all...it lands safely on Yoshi's back! And right after him drops a map!!

This paradise is Yoshi's Island. And on this island lives lots of different Yoshies. These Yoshies are naturally laid back and relaxed, but this is a calamity and everyone is in a state of panic. As the Yoshies frantically yell over each other, the baby insistently points at something.

Yes! The baby can sense the other baby?s location. All the Yoshies quickly agree to help carry the baby to its destination by using a relay system not unlike the old pony express.

The Green Yoshi draws first honors.

--From the SNES Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island instruction manual.

Overview:

Kamek, the leader before Bowser, heard news of two twins that were extra amazing. Knowing they could possibly defeat the new born Bowser (and did later, as we all know) he casts a spell and sends them to Yoshi's Island, trying to keep them there forever! Now, the Yoshies must return them to their natural state and make sure they grow up to save the universe!

Directions:

Take Baby Mario for a ride with 8 different colored Yoshies through 6 worlds of 8 levels each. Avoid contact with the enemies in each level or Baby Mario will be placed in a floating protective bubble for a certain amount of time. If you lose Baby Mario to the Shy Guys, you lose a life. Eat the enemies you can and turn them into eggs to toss to collect coins, defeat other enemies, find secrets, or clear paths. Stomp on enemies and eliminate them for ever! Collect the 5 flowers in each level to increase your chance of going to a bonus world. Use the abilities given to you to stop the crazy bosses and find abilities to get you through a level. Equip items in key moments to add a bit of extra "fire" power or even freeze your oncoming enemies. Go through many castles and if lucky and clever enough you'll reach a 100% completion of the game.

Controls:

A Button - Throw Egg / Select
B Button - Jump hold For Float
X Button - N/A
Y Button - Throw Tongue / Hold To Speed Up
L Button - N/A
R Button - N/A
Start Button - Pause
Select Button - N / A

Hints:

Make Eggs yellow and red
It's best to have a full supply of green eggs for this trick. Find a place in a level where you can aim straight up without hitting anything else (i.e.: level 6-4 would be a good one, after you hit a door, but don't go in yet). Stock up on eggs if you don't have any, then aim straight up. Throw an egg and after it hits the ceiling once, have Yoshi catch it with his tongue. It should stop bouncing and be a yellow egg (if it was green to begin with). Throw another egg, this time letting it hit the ceiling twice, then catch it. It should have turned red. Doing this trick right will help you make your score better, as red eggs give 2 stars that can be used on the Baby Timer that appears when Mario falls off Yoshi's back.

Tips:

Shortcut to Mini-games
While at the level select screen, hold down SELECT and type: X X Y B A

Alternate Title Screen
Simply 100% the game and you'll have an alternate title screen that shows yoshi's island but instead of it being daytime on the island it will be night

Unlock secret levels and bonus games in each world To unlock a bonus level and one of the 6 bonus games (when you get a flower on a roulette on the end of the level), finish a world with a 100 on each level to unlock the level and bonus game. These levels are tough for beginners. Here are the bonus games unlocked in each world:

World 1: Flip Cards
World 2: Scratch 'n' Match
World 3: Drawing Lots
World 4: Match Cards
World 5: Roulette
World 6: Slot Machine

Eating Baby Mario
You must have the +10 or +20 star item in your pause screen or it won't work. It works on any level that has a metamorphosis bubble, but it works best on level 5-5 (Goonie Rides!!), where I discovered it. In 5-5, reach the first middle ring, and then you will notice the metamorphosis helicopter bubble ahead.  Don't touch it yet. Instead, walk to the edge of the cliff. You will see the white Goonies flying your way.  Let one hit you and let baby Mario cry in the
air. Now, before the timer runs out, run left until the helicopter bubble is at the right edge of the screen.  Don't move from there. Baby Mario will float around the helicopter bubble. Let the timer reach zero.  When the red Toadies come and begin carrying him away, lick baby Mario from them, and quickly touch the helicopter bubble while the timer is still 0. When you finish morphing, the Toadies will come back and try to take baby Mario with them, even though you're a helicopter (Don't touch the baby while they are trying to take him, or you will freeze the scroll of the screen!). Now, when all four Toadies are about to take off with baby Mario, immediately pause the game and activate a +10 or +20 stars item. The red Toadies will let go of baby Mario, but he will still be crying in his bubble (and you are a helicopter!). Now touch baby Mario as a helicopter. The bubble will pop and then baby Mario will be stuck in a tiny bubble that doesn't even close around him (If you dont touch him as a helicopter, theres a glitch when the helicopter runs out: youll get Mario back, but the timer wont countdown if you get hit, as long as you dont touch a helicopter bubble again). Now, you can do one of two things:

a) Wait until the helicopter power runs out. If that happens, you will be transformed back into Yoshi.  But notice anything strange? Baby Mario is still in that tiny bubble, and he is off your back! Now this is the cool thing though. You can lick baby Mario and he will go into Yoshi's mouth! If you swallow him, he will turn into an egg that can't damage Goonies! If you spit him back out, he will still be in the tiny bubble and slide around until he falls off the stage. You can't even lick him back into your mouth!

b) Head to the Yoshi Block as a helicopter at the end of this part of the stage. Avoid the Goonies and Green Piranas, and hit the Yoshi Block. The baby will transport where you are, and you will transform back into Yoshi. But the funny thing is that once again, you have no Baby Mario on your back. And Mario's bubble will return to normal size, but he will start floating up infinitely! You will lose him unless you can lick him before he floats away. Now, you can swallow him again and turn him into an egg, but if you spit him out, he will float around in his bubble up and down and move horizontally (you'll see what I mean) and won't stop. If you happen to spit him at a winged cloud, he will activate it but Mario will explode in the process! You cannot lick Baby Mario back into your mouth if you spit him out either.

These are fun glitches to try but remember that you must have the +10 or +20 star item and must have a metamorphosis bubble in the course. I have succeeded in other courses with many Yoshi shapes. But let me warn you that if you pull off this glitch, you cannot leave the course or beat it without pressing start and select. Oh, and you will have baby Mario on your back again if you do leave the course. Have fun pulling this one off, gamers!

999 Lives Trick
In World 1-7 (Touch Fuzzy Get Dizzy), you'll see these little enemies near the beginning that do nothing but stand still, occasionally jump up and down and turn into a ball. They may look pointless, but they're a shortcut to maxing out your lives.

Grab one of them, then run right until you see a pipe that infinitely spawns Shy Guys. Spit out your little friend in that inch wide area you see between the pipe and the wall, then jump to the platform to the right of the pipe. Every time a Shy Guy comes out of the pipe, it'll jump into your little friend and kill itself. You'll eventually start getting a 1Up every time a Shy Guy dies, and if you stand there long enough, you can get as many lives as you want, all the way up to 999.

Make Eggs yellow and red
It's best to have a full supply of green eggs for this trick. Find a place in a level where you can aim straight up without hitting anything else (ie: level 6-4 would be a good one, after you hit a door, but don't go in yet). Stock up on eggs if you don't have any, then aim straight up. Throw an egg and after it hits the ceiling once, have Yoshi catch it with his tongue. It should stop bouncing and be a yellow egg (if it was green to begin with). Throw another egg, this time letting it hit the ceiling twice, then catch it. It should have turned red. Doing this trick right will help you make your score better, as red eggs give 2 stars that can be used on the Baby Timer that appears when Mario falls off Yoshi's back.

Reviewer: Aggort
http://www.consoleclassix.com/snes/super_mario_world_2_yoshis_island.html
