Super Metroid
Platform: Super Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: Gamepad
Genre: Platformer
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1994
Developer: Nintendo
Publisher: Nintendo
Players: 1
_________________________
Broken Peace The galaxy once enjoyed a period of peace and prosperity. Trade lines were open, the citizens were happy and the Galactic Federation kept a watchful eye over the planets. Not long ago, that peace was broken by a startling discovery.

The Dawn of the Metroids On a routine survey mission of the planet SR388, the crew of a Galactic Federation vessel discovered a new airborne life form and gave it the name "Metroid". These creatures, which could engulf other living beings and take away their energy, proved to be strong and prolific. After just a few seconds of Beta-Ray bombardment, a single Metroid became two Metroids, and then four. Several Metroid specimens were gathered so that the survey vessel crew could take them to Galactic Federation Headquarters for further examination. As the crew sped towards headquarters, they were ambushed by space pirates from the planet Zebes. The pirates stole the Metroids and took them to their home planet, where the planet-leading Mother Brain created a Metroid force.

Enter Samus Bounty hunter Samus Aran was commissioned by the Galactic Federation to eliminate the space pirates and do away with the dangerous Metroids. Samus landed on Zebes alone and carried out her mission with speed and precision. After the skirmish on Zebes, a special corps was assigned by the Galactic Federation to destroy the Metroids on SR388. That corps was never heard from again. The Supreme Council gave Samus the job to fly to SR388 and do what the special corps could not do--make the Metroids extinct.

RETRUN TO SR388 The Metroids on SR388 were more advanced than the creatures on Zebes. These monsters could shed their skins and grow even stronger. Samus worked deep below the surface and blasted all of the Metroids in her path. Her final victory was against the enormous Metroid Queen. When the queen was defeated, Samus discovered a Metroid egg which hatched before her eyes. Even this hardened bounty hunter could not destroy the Metroid larva. When the larva sensed Samus' presence, it clung to her as though it had found its mother. Samus packed up the Metroid larva and took it with her to the Space Science Academy on the Galactic Federation Space Colony where scientists could study the creature and understand its special organic structure.

A New Discovery The Science Academy scientists found out that the energy- producing properties of the Metroid could benefit humankind. Their report suggested that the Metroids may have originally been created for peaceful purposes. Just when it seemed peace and order had been restored, Samus received an emergency directive from the Galactic Federation:

EMERGENCY! EMERGENCY! Return immediately to the Space Science Academy!

WhenSamus made her way to the research facility, she found the building in ruins and the Metroid larve was nowhere to be found. Out of the darkness came a group of Zebesian space pirates and their leader, Ridley, who had the Metroid larva in tow. The pirates fled to a rebuilt planet Zebes and Samus followed them, resolving to finish them off and save the hatchling!

--From the SNES Super Metroid instruction manual.

Overview:

Super Metroid was a great addition to the series. It had a great story, just like the other Metroid games, but with better graphics, sound, and controls. It was an absolute joy to play and made you want to keep playing all night long. This may have been the greatest Metroid game ever made. If you have played any of the Metroid games and enjoyed them, you must play Super Metroid. Good luck and have fun playing.

Directions:

Explore the caverns of Zebes searching for the last Metroid. When you first arrive on Zebes, you can't do much. As you explore, you will gain new abilities that will allow you to dive deeper into the planet.

Controls:

A Button - Jump
B Button - Run
X Button - Shoot
Y Button - Cancel/Deselect weapon
L Button - Angle Down
R Button - Angle Up
Start Button - Pause
Select Button - Select Item

Tips:

Crystal Flash
This allows you to refill your Energy Tanks.
1. You must have 49 or less energy units.
2. You must have 10 or more missiles, 10 or more Super Missiles, and 11 or more Power Bombs.
3. Choose the Power Bomb icon, and morph.
4. Press and hold the L, R, and shot buttons and hold DOWN on the control pad.  You will absorb the blast and refill your energy.

Secret Attacks
First, Equip the Charge Beam and ONE other beam ability e. g. ice or wide (NOT two) Select the power Bombs but do not enter morph ball mode.  Charge your beam up and you should use one of the following secret attacks

Ice-  A shield will form around you damaging enemies you touch
Wave- Energy Balls circle you then Fire away from you in various directions
Plasma- Same as wave but with Plasma effect
Spazer- Large beams fire away from you like shrapnel This will use up one of your Power Bombs

(It may not work if you've just finished charging, give it another second)

Samus clones
First, you need the speed boots and X ray visor. This is fairly easy to pull off.

Switch to the weapon that is before the Visor. Start holding the boost button while running until you see those silhouettes of Samus. Now, still holding the boost button, switch to the X ray visor. You will stop, and you will see those silhouettes in full color, mimicking your every move.  Once you let go of the button, the silhouettes will disappear.

Murder Beam
By equipping all five beams at the game time you can kill Motherbrain pretty easily.

To equip all five beams at the same time go into the equipment screen in the Sub-Menu. You will notice that the Spazar Beam in unequipped because the Plazma Beam cancels out the Spazar. Equip the Spazar Beam (thus unequipping the Plazma Beam) then move the curser over to one of the Boot Upgrades. Hit Left and the A Button at the same time to equip the Plazma Beam. If you did it right then the letters Var should appear next to the Plazma Beam.

To complete the glitch you must first charge your beam before equiping all five beams. After your beam is charged all the way , equip all five beam the way I decribed above the fire it at say Motherbrains head (when it's laying on the ground). If you did it right then an orange orb should stay behind and constantly hit Motherbrain. Equip your beams regularly.

NOTE: This beam can crash your game if not done correctly.

Viewing the Endings

Best Ending :  Beat the game in under 3 hours 
2nd Best Ending :  Beat the game within 3: 01-10: 00 
Easiest ending :  Beat the game making sure your file has more  than 10 hours on it.

Kill Draygon in one hit
As soon as the boss fight with Draygon begins, note the four turrets firing electricity from the walls-two on either side. Before Draygon even shows up, blast away all four turrets with charge shots. See how the turrets spew out electricity after being killed? Equip the Grapple Beam and get ready to use this to your advantage.

Instead of fighting Draygon the normal way, allow him to grab you. While he's swinging you about the room, use the Grapple Beam to latch on to one of the panels on the wall that was once occupied by a turret.  The electricity will go through the Grapple Beam, through your suit, and to Draygon himself. Samus will stay locked on until Draygon dies.

Save the Zebes Critters
When you are escaping during the countdown at the very end of the game, don't go straight to your ship from Crateria's caves. Instead, go to the room where you first acquired the morph ball bombs. Inside should be the critters that helped you escape certain rooms earlier in the game. Once they leave the room, you can exit too from where you entered. Saving them will affect the ending.

Higher Jump
In Super Metroid, when you get the Gravity Suit, you can move underwater freely. However, there is a trick that you can use to jump higher underwater. First, find a location that is fully submerged in water. Try a room in Maridia or the room before Lower Norfair (the ones with filled with Lava) Next, hold the jump button. Immediately after you press it, press pause. Go to the inventory menu and switch off the gravity suit.  Hold the jump button and unpause the game. You will jump higher than normal. Use this trick to get the screw attack before the space jump.

Green Gate Glitch
This is a glitch that exploits an error in the detection of valid hits in the various green gates scattered across Zebes.

Make sure the gate's tab faces to the left, and you are on its right. Stand some distance, maybe 5-6 tiles or more, from the gate. Hold the run button and right before you reach the gate tap the jump button while simultaneously aiming up and to the left and firing a super missile. With patience and skill you will open the gate from the 'wrong' side.

Exploit this glitch to obtain the Screw Attack without facing Golden Torizo, or to obtain the Grapple Beam by an alternate path, or even beat the game without shattering the Maridian tube.

http://www.consoleclassix.com/snes/super_metroid.html
