Super Mario All-Stars
Platform: Super Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: Gamepad
Genre: Platformer
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1993
Developer: Nintendo
Publisher: Nintendo
Players: 1 or 2 Alternating
_________________________
SUPER MARIO BROS. THE LOST LEVELS

The Mushroom Kingdom was a peaceful place, until the fateful day that Bowser used his twisted magic to invade it. Bowser turned most of the Mushroom Kingdom's people into rocks, bricks, and mushrooms. He even kidnapped Princess Toadstool and held her captive in his huge castle.

When the Mario Brothers, Mario and Luigi, heard this, they knew that they needed to do something. They decided to battle Bowser and his evil minions to save the Princess. Can they do it?

SUPER MARIO BROS. 2

One evening, Mario had a strange dream. He dreamt of a long, long stairway leading up to a door. As soon as the door opened, he was confronted with a world he had never seen before spreading out as far as his eyes could see. Suddenly, he heard a faint voice saying "Welcome to 'Subcon', the land of dreams. We have been cursed by Wart. Please defeat Wart and save us. Remember, Wart hates vegetables. Please help us!"

The next day, on the way to a picnic, Mario talked to Luigi, Toad, and the Princess about the strange dream he had. After arriving at the picnic area, they found a small cave. When they opened the door in this cave, to their great surprise, the world that Mario saw in his dream spread out before them!

SUPER MARIO BROS. 3

The Mushroom Kingdom has been a peaceful place thanks to the brave deeds of Mario and Luigi. The Mushroom Kingdom forms an entrance to the Mushroom World where all is not well. Bowser has sent his 7 children to make mischief as they please in the normally peaceful Mushroom World. They stole the royal magic wands from each country in the Mushroom World and used them to turn their kings into animals. Mario and Luigi must recover the royal magic wands from Bowser's 7 kids to return the kings to their true forms. "Good-bye and good luck!", said the Princess and Toad as Mario and Luigi set off on their journey deep into the Mushroom World.

--From the SNES Super Mario All Stars instruction manual.

Overview:

Four great Super Mario Bros. games in one package!

Directions:

Super Mario Bros. The Lost Levels (JAPAN Super Mario Bros. 2):

This is the Japanese version of Super Mario Bros. 2. Unlike the U.S. version this game is much more similar to SMB1. The Lost Levels does not have Two Player mode.

You can play as Mario or Luigi. Mario is exactly the same as he was in the last game, but Luigi jumps higher and has less traction. Mario resists wind better than Luigi.

Mario and Luigi can get more air from bouncing off enemies than in their last adventure, which is a good thing because you'll be required to do it to make some pretty difficult jumps.

Another new tradition is the Poison Mushroom. Touch this and it's the same as touching an enemy. If you want to know what they look like check the first screen shot.

This game is A LOT harder than the original game. Luckily, you can save in any level by pressing Start and choosing either Save and Continue or Save and Quit.

One final word of warning, there are warp zones in the game that will send you BACK to earlier levels. Watch out! 

Controls:

B Button - Jump/Fly
Y Button - Shoot Fireballs, Tail Whip, hold to Run
Start Button - Pause/Save
Select Button - Nothing

Tips:

(SMB 1) High Score Reset
On the title screen, press A, B, L, and R all at the same time. 

(SMB 1) Restart after game over
Hold A + B on the gameover screen, then press start.

(SMB 1)
If you finish a level (touch the flagpole) when the ones digit of the time is 1, 3, or 6, there will be that many fireworks and each one is worth 500 points.

(SMB1) Warp to world 5
Get on top of the ceiling in world 4-2 and run past the end pipe that leads to the flagpole. You will find a lone pipe that warps you to world 5

(SMB1) Warp Zone to Level 2, 3, and 4
To find a Warp Zone that can take you Level 2, 3, or 4 go to the part of world 1-2 then get to the part of the world at the end where all the platforms are moving up. Jump on one, then leap on top of the ceiling from there. Keep going until you reach five pipes.  It'll say 'Welcome to Warp Zone!' with a number above each pipe. The 2 takes you to level 2, the three to level 3, and the four to level four.

(SMB1) Warp Zone to Levels 6, 7, and 8
Go to world 4-2  Go past the first set of down platforms to 3 seemingly unreachable blocks.  Uncover 2 invisible blocks under the rightmost and center bricks by jumping. Hit the left brick to sprout a vine. Climb the vine up and proceed right. You will find Warp zones 6, 7, and 8

(SMB 2) Kill Yourself
Pause then hold L + R and press select. 

(SMB2) Warp to World 4-1
Take a potion to the isolated vase to the right of the door into the building in 1-3. Place the potion close to the vase and go through the door to Sub Space.  Stand on top of the vase while in Sub Space and press Down on the d-pad to warp to World 4-1

(SMB2) Warp to World 5-1
Go to World 3-1 and enter the door to the waterfall and clouds. Drop down the waterfall to a door way down below. Find the potion in the huge patch of vegetables and take it to the vase next to the door.  Enter Sub Space and stand on top of the vase and press down on the d-pad to enter the vase. You will be taken to 5-1

(SMB2) Warp to World 6-1
Go to World 4-2 and proceed to the whales. Find a potion and get to the island with the vase. Place the potion down and enter the door that appears to go into Sub Space. Warp down the vase to World 6-1

(SMB2) Warp to World 7-1
Go to World 5-3 and find a potion. Proceed all the way back left and use Luigi's squat jump or an enemy to get to the platform with the vase. Drop the potion and enter Sub Space and warp down the vase to World 7-1

(SMB 3) Hidden White Mushroom Houses
In certain levels, the screen moves forward and pushes you along. If you get a certain number of coins within these said levels, you unlock a secret white mushroom house holding a powerful item. Below are the levels and the number of coins needed in each level. 

White mushroom house: Level 1-4  Collect 44 coins within the level
White mushroom house: Level 2-2  Collect 30 coins within the level
White mushroom house: Level 3-8  Collect 41 coins within the level
White mushroom house: Level 4-2  Collect 22 coins within the level
White mushroom house: Level 5-5  Collect 28 coins within the level
White mushroom house: Level 6-7  Collect 78 coins within the level
White mushroom house: Level 7-2  Collect 41 coins within the level

(SMB3)'Hide' behind scenery
To 'hide' behind scenery, simply hold down for a couple seconds while standing on a white block. Then your player can 'hide' behind scenery for about thirty seconds.

(SMB3) Warp Whistles
Level 1-3
Find the white block near the end and crouch on to of it for 5 seconds. Then proceed to the goal, and go behind it. You will find a Mushroom house with a Whistle.

Level 1 Fortress
Fly over the top of the level when you find the first door with your raccoon powers, and find a hidden door at the far right on the ceiling. It leads to a warp whistle

Level 2 Hammer Brother
Get the Hammer from one of the Hammer Brothers here and use it to destroy the rock at the upper right corner of the Level 2 Map. Then engage the hammer brother on the other side. You should get a chest with a Warp Whistle.

(SMB3) 28 P-Wings
Complete the game and watch the ending. Now start a new game. You will start at World 1 with 28 P-Wings.

(SMB3) Harmless Bowser
At the end of the game, when Bowser uses his jump attack on you, duck if you are big Mario, or stay still if you are small Mario. Bowser will break the bricks, but he won't hurt you. If you are small Mario, you can run right through Bowser and not get hurt.

In other words, Bowser's lower half is harmless, but his upper half can still hurt you.

(SMB3) Infinite items
Complete levels until you get to toad's mushroom house, where you get to open a chest for an item. Get the item, save and exit. Now reload the file and the levels you finished will still be completed but toads house will be back so you can get the item again! :D  Repeat until you have as many as you need. Also this works for the extra lives slot and the memory card game houses too.

(SMB3) Morph a wandering hammer brother into a treasure ship.  To turn a wandering hammer brother (the ones that walk about on the world map) into a white ship full of coins, collect a number of coins that is a multiple of 11. Make the tens digit in your score match the multiple of 11. Stop the timer at the end of the stage that you are playing in on an even number.  One combination would be: 11 coins, 9, 310 as your score, and the timer at 104. This only works in worlds 1, 3, 5, and 6.

(SMB3) To get the N-Spade Card Game
To get the N-Spade card game to appear on the World Map. You must do gain 80, 000 points as one player, and successfully beat the stage that you broke the 80, 000 points with.

(SMB: LL) High Score Reset
On the title screen, press A, B, L, and R all at the same time. 

(SMB: LL) World 9
To get World 9 in the Lost Levels, beat all 32 levels (World 1-1 to 8-4) in order without using any Warp Zones and you will go to World 9. If you beat World 9 you can go to Worlds A-D (which you can access if you beat the game with warping though).

(SMB: LL) Extra Life at the flagpole
To get an Extra Life, make sure that when you touch the flagpole, the last digit of the timer is a multiple of
the number of coins you have (Example: TIMER = 231/COINS = 11). This also works with 0. Do this correctly and instead of getting a point bonus, you will get a 1-UP.

(SMB: LL) 5000 points from Timer
Make sure you're Fire Mario/Luigi when you reach Bowser. Blast him with fireballs, but don't grab the axe just yet. Instead, wait the timer out, but make sure you're next to the axe when there's about 50 seconds left. Now get ready and time your jump on the axe so the Timer reads '000'. Once you reach Toad and the game adds the Timer to your score, you may notice that it changed from '000' to '999'. Thus the game thinks you finished with '1000' on the Timer and times that by 5. Note: this does not work on the Original NES version of the game.

http://www.consoleclassix.com/snes/super_mario_all_stars.html
