Terranigma
Platform: Super Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: Europe
Media: Cartridge
Controller: Gamepad
Genre: Role Playing Game
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1996
Developer: Quintet
Publisher: Nintendo
Players: 1
_________________________
Terranigma keeps a constant top-down perspective view of the world and utilizes an action-based battle system that allows the player to perform different techniques depending on whether the protagonist is running, jumping, attacking, or using a combination of these three actions. Each attack is meant for dealing more damage to certain kinds of enemies, though in most cases there is little or no difference regardless of the technique used. Projectiles launched at Ark can be blocked by the guard technique otherwise ineffective against melee attacks.

With each victory, experience points are gained, increasing the protagonist's level and his maximal hit points, strength, defense and luck. Slain enemies sometimes leave behind gems which can be used to buy weapons, armors, healing items and spells.

There are no magic points in the game, all spells take the form of one-time-use items instead. The player must collect Magirocks and take them to a magic shop to have them transformed into magic rings and summon medals. Those items are used up when casting the corresponding spell and then turn back to Magirocks which may be exchanged for new spells again. Upon defeating bosses and completing miscellaneous tasks, new types of magic become available.

Setting:

In Terranigma, the Earth is portrayed as a hollow sphere that has both an external and internal face. Since the beginning of the Earth, the external Lightside, the surface world, stood for growth whereas the internal Darkside, the under world, represented decline. Over the course of billions of years, these two forces came to be called God and Devil. Regardless of the inner antagonism, rapid progress took root and primitive life forms evolved to plants, animals and humans. Technology and industry revolutionized the evolution, but the fight between God and the Devil was still taking place, more fiercely than ever. The conflict culminated in a final battle at the southernmost point of the surface world. However, neither of the two forces was victorious. The continents of the surface world submerged into the sea and the under world was sealed away.

Tips:

Almost Free Saving and Inn in Litz
It normally costs you 10 Gems to get to the Diary in Litz, which is in the inn room with your bed. However, if you pay the man guarding the door for your room but never actually use the bed (use the food on the table outside instead) you can heal and save for free!  (Note: you will have to use the bed to trigger a cut scene after beating Bloody Mary)

Easy 500 gems
In Louran, go to Temjin's house and talk to him. When he asks you what to do with his money, tell him to take it to his grave. Later on, when Louran transforms into a ghost town, go to the cemetery and check the most northwest grave. It's Temjin's. Guess what, the guy took your advice and you've just become 500 gems heavier.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terranigma
