Timecop
Platform: Super Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: Gamepad
Genre: Movie Adaption
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1995
Developer: Cryo Interactive
Publisher: JVC
Players: 1
_________________________
"Traveling around in time on the SNES"

Introduction

This is a game based on a movie, I believe. Whatever it is or not, the game is not that really good anyways. Its you're slightly below average adventure game with some cops guy that is equipped with some meek pistol that shoots his opponents.

Released in 1995, this game has some good looking graphic technology, which differ from the other games o nthe SNES. This is what I first noticed when I play the game; that is smooth and very good looking.

But there are many other flaws in this game that makes it bad. Such as what, you may ask me. Well, not so fun gameplay for certainly. And then you have so-so music and very cheap sounding sound effects in the game.

Gameplay

The gameplay for this game is not fun, to put bluntly. Most of the time you'll be running around in the game looking for ammos for you meekly looking pistol that doesn't do alot of damage. Ammos is hard to come by in this game and that you'll be looking for it very often. So you can conclude that ammo is a very hard commodity in this game and that it should be reserved alot.

So much of the time when you're controling this time cop, you'll be jumping and dodging the bullets that got ziz over your head. Oh yeah, you can also punch in the game (no kicking or throws, just punches) but it isn't very effective in the game. For example, when you're trying to punch the guy in the game, but you mis-timd your aim and that he walked straight into you... well, you lost a chunk of your health.

What I noticed that this game is indeed very hard. Most of the time you'll notice yourself playing the same level over and over game, trying to beat the stage because you'll be losing your health so much. The game developer, to bluntly put it, made this game so damn hard.

The enemies in this game includes humans and robots. The human enemies are equipped with guns and fists to knoc you out. The robots are simply annoying little objects that tries to 'hit' you. This means just moving in a very slowly velocity and trying to touch you. You know what this means? You lost health! What a terrible game design.

Graphic

LIke I said, the graphic in this game is very good. The texture in the game stimules 'real' texture in the game as close as possible to the SNES's processing ability as you can get. The skin on the human character, your main character in which you're controlling, looks real.

The level design that makes this game is like the other dozens of adventure game for the SNES. Why? because it's design and is done time and time over again. Jump this place. Avoid the little spikey thing over there. Including the robot. And yes, don't jump on the pit or you'll die for sure.

Like I said before, because of the level design that made this game very frustating. I think the game developer made this game alot of CHALLENGING, to the point that it is difficult to complete this game.

Conclusion

Time Cop, based on a movie is yet another horrible translation from movie to video games. I don't like it, and I don't think you should waste your play and time playing this game either. Perhaps you should give it a try if you want to see how mundane it is.

Tips:

Cheat Mode
At the title screen, press A, B, X, Y, A, B, X, Y, and Start

Reviewer's Score: 7/10, Originally Posted: 11/16/03

Reviewer: J J N
http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/snes/review/R63816.html
