Top Gear
Platform: Super Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: Gamepad
Genre: Racing, Cars
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1992
Developer: Gremlin Graphics Software, Ltd.
Publisher: KEMCO
Players: 1 or 2
_________________________
Top Gear, as the name suggests, is a car racing game. Race against the clock and a field of computer-controlled drivers to see if you can become the ultimate racing champion. Or play with a friend and show off your track burning skills.

Top Gear's graphics if not perfect are certainly more than adequate, the sound effects are good and the music, unlike most video games of this type, is actually worth listening to, and won't drive you mad while you race. Plus it's a pretty comprehensive racing simulator without getting so bogged down in realism that it takes all the fun out of it.

Directions:

Top Gear is one of the most fun games I've played in a while. First of all you get to choose which kind of car you want to drive. Will you go for the highest top speed, maximum acceleration, or try a balanced approach? Also you can choose an auto transmission or take ultimate control over your machine and choose manual drive.

As the tracks get longer you'll need to watch your fuel gauge and time your pit stops carefully. Will a quarter of a tank get you through the race, or will you have to give up a few positions to finish at all?

Thankfully you won't crash and burn if you bump a barrier or another vehicle, but any contact except where your tires meet pavement will slow you down, so be careful! And when the road ahead is clear, hit the Nitro for a powerful boost of speed! Now you're really in Top Gear! 

Controls:

X Button - Accelerate
Y Button - Brake
A Button - Nitro
B Button - Input Options
L Button - Gear Down
R Button - Gear Up
Start Button - Start Game, Input Options
Select Button - Select Options, Pause Race

Tips:

Fuel Up Faster
Whenever you enter the pit stop, hold up

Amateur Passwords:
EMULATOR France
CAR PARK Germany
ANALYSER Italy
GEARBOX Japan
ROAD HOG Scandanavia
MOONBATH South America
HORIZONS U. K.

Champion Passwords:
EPYLLION France
WRECKAGE Germany
GLUCAGON Italy
OILCLOTH Japan
CARACOLE Scandanavia
EDUCATED South America
KEELSON U. K.

Pro Passwords:
ALCHEMY France
THEWORLD Germany
A LOOPER Italy
LEGEND Japan
LETSRACE Scandanavia
FOUR MEG South America
SEASONAL U. K.

Race in Any Country Without Completing the Stages At the 'select country' screen choose the United Kingdom (UK) as your destination, then type in the following code to play any country you wish:

VALHALLA
Get 1st place and 2nd place at the same time.  This glitch might be a little hard to do at first, but with a little practice you should be able to easily pull it off on every level. On your last lap, when you are nearing the finish line simply make half of your car (go fast) run into the finishing line. Because of this, the front part of the car will cross (giving you 1st place) and than the car will bounce back and go forward again (giving you 2nd place too).

Reviewer: jcooper
http://www.consoleclassix.com/snes/top_gear.html
