Uniracers
Alternative title: Unirally
Platform: Super Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA, Europe
Media: Cartridge
Controller: Gamepad
Genre: Racing
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1994
Developer: DMA Design
Publisher: Nintendo
Players: 1 or 2 VS
_________________________
The Sun didn't rise, the Moon didn't set. Fluffy clouds failed to make any sort of appearance and the night wasn't dark and stormy. Nobody was silhouetted against a backdrop of stars and the burning fires of the dawn sky somehow never had a chance. There were no such things, you see. Not in the Universe of the Uniracers.

But heck, that's the way it goes sometimes. There were far more important things to work up a sweat about than some pretty scenery. Racing for one thing, for another....well that was it, just racing. It was the whole purpose of the Uniracers. And it happened sort of like this:

Far in the past, or what passed for the past, some great and powerful person looked across the abstract Universe and realized that his boredom went right off the scale. He was through with creating a planet here, an asteroid there. What's more he was trying to impress a young goddess who thought that he lacked a creative imagination. After all, you can only say kind things about a newly created world so many times without giggling.

This wasn't a fun situation for the person, as you can well imagine. So after a timeless interval locked in the celestial equivalent of a cupboard, with an endless supply of Turbo-Strength Coffee, he came up with the idea of a race of Unicycles who would compete in the ultimate games! What's more, it would really break the ice at parties.

Such is the legend told by Unicycles when they slow down enough to talk to each other (well sometimes), although no-one

seems to know whether the Person actually won over the young goddess and lived happily ever after. In fact if you stopped a Unicycle and asked, you'd find that none of them really cared. It's RACING that's the thing.

So the Uniracers came into being and, boy, were they racing machines or what?!?! An entire race of dedicated cycles. Sure enough they got right into their role and raced all the time in the abstract days and neon nights of their Universe. And so it went for a long, long time.

But there is something else, too. Even when a Unicycle couldn't find a racing partner, out of the abstract blue would turn up a Ghostly cycle to provide a race by which to measure themselves. The Ghosts never talk, never hang about to see what happens. Some call them the free spirits of cycles that lost important races and were condemned to race forever to prove themselves. Others claim that they are the personal cycles of that old Person, used to make sure the rest of them keep on track.

And at the very end of the "day" in whispers, is told the tale of the Anti-Uni, the ultimate racer whom no-one can find, no-one but the very greatest of all. Become the very height of racing excellence and the Anti-Uni will come to challenge you...

--From the SNES Uniracers instruction manual.

Overview:

Uniracers is a simple, but fast paced game that is a lot of fun. Race unicycles in a large series of tracks, and do different stunts to boost your speed and your ego! Either race head to head, or gain points by performing stunts in special stunt tracks. Play against the computer or go at it split screen with a friend. Either way you'll have a good time.

Directions:

This game is forunately not too hard to figure out, even if you have never played it before. There are a series of tours and a series of races or stunt courses in each tour. Grab a cycle, pick a tour and track and then your ready.

Progress by successfully completing all tracks in a tour.

Accelerate by pressing the control pad left or right (depending on which direction you want to go). Press B to jump and Y to brake. Perform different stunts by getting a lot of air (i.e. jumping from high places) and using the X, Y, R, and L buttons. Perform different stunt combinations to get more points and gain more speed. But be sure to land with your wheel to the ground or performing the stunt will hurt more than it will help.

Controls:

A Button - Twist Stunt
B Button - Jump
X Button - Z-flip Stunt
Y Button - Brake
L Button - Flip Left (Stunt)
R Button - Flip Right (Stunt)
Start Button - Pause
Select Button - Scroll Down Main Menu

Tips:

Head Start
To get gain some speed when starting up, jump and do a single flip the direction you are going, even if you are just on a flat surface. Use this same trick to gain speed on straight-a-ways.

Delete Everything
Hold down Left, L, and R and press A at title screen and select WIPE RAM

See the ending
Hold Down, L, and R and press B when the title screen appears

Also Uncool
SATAN is also deemed uncool a choice of name (you're told Not cool enough when you attempt to choose the name).

Uncool sentence 
When you change a bike name, if you put SEGA or SONIC as a name, it'll be written 'Not cool enough'.

Easy game
If you want an easy gold medal, select a course you got a silver medal on and select 'GOLD' with the arrow.  Press START and it will change between BRONZE, SILVER, and GOLD, select BRONZE and race against the easiest opponent for a gold medal! Works with silver too, but in silver, you can only select Bronze or Silver.

Single Player League
Normally, you need a minimum of 2 to make a league, but you can have a league with just one person! If you want to try that, you need to get yourself and one other player into the league. (2 players) After making the league, delete the 2nd player you entered in and check the league again, it should be only you in the league.

Reviewer: Matt

http://www.consoleclassix.com/snes/uniracers.html
