WWF Raw
Platform: Super Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: Gamepad
Genre: Sports, Wrestling
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1995
Developer: Scuptured Software
Publisher: LJN
Players: 1 to 4 CO-OP, VS
_________________________
Raw is one of the most successful TV wrestling programs in the world today. Those athletes go out and give it their all to entertain millions. In the old days, RAW had many greats like Bret Hart, The Undertaker, Yokozuna, Owen Hart, Diesel and Bam Bam Bigelow! In this game, you play as them to win!

Directions:

There are many ways to have fun with this game. There's the occasional one-on-one match, where two wrestlers go at it. There's also tag team matches, where two teams of 2 fight against each other. There's a Survivor Series, where two teams of 4 fight and if one member is defeated, he is eliminated. If they all are eliminated on a team, the remaining team wins! Royal Rumble is where wrestlers come in randomly and your job is to get them out of the ring before they do it to you. In the Bedlam match, all 4 tag team competitors are in the ring together and they do not need to be tagged in. Lastly, the Raw Endurance Match, where two teams of 6 will compete. Each team will send out one wrestler at a time to combat a wrestler from the other team. The last team that still has a member who hasn't been pinned wins the match-up.

For one-on-one, tag team, and Bedlam matches, you have sub-options! There's a one fall match, where the first person to pin their opponent wins. There's a brawl, where you can fight anywhere around ringside, and anything goes! And there's the Tournament, where you fight in a series of matches for the WWF Championships!

The list of wrestlers are: Bret Hart, Undertaker, Yokozuna, Bam Bam Bigelow, Razor Ramon, Lex Luger, Doink, Shawn Michaels, 1-2-3 Kid, Diesel, Owen Hart, and Luna Vachon.

Controls:

A Button - Knee Drop, Stomp, Dropkick with opponent running, Use weapon
B Button - Splash, Elbow Drop, Tope Rope Elbow Drop, Dropkick, Running Elbow Drop, Tag in partner
X Button - Grapple, Perform Finisher (when opponent's bar is low and red), pin opponent
Y Button - Irish Whip
L Button - Atomic drop
R Button - Back Suplex

Tips:

Change wrestler's attributes
On the wrestler select screen, when the indicated wrestler listed below is highlighted, press the select button to see the character's attributes, then press
the following button sequence to change their stats: 
Left and Up, A, and Start 123 Kid
A, Y, and Start Bam Bam Bigelow
Left and Down and Start Bret Hart
Down, A, Y, and Start Diesel
Left, A, Y, and Start Doink
Down and Right and Start Lex Luger
Up and Right and A Luna Vachon
Up, A, Y, and Start Owen Hart
Left, A, and Y Razor Ramon
Left and Down, A, and Y Shawn Michaels
Right, Y, and Start Undertaker
Up, A, and Y Yokozuna

2-Punch Knockout
On the Copyright screen, press Up + B + Y simultaneously.

Duplicate Character Trick
On the select screen. Press AND HOLD Up, the R trigger, and A. Then press A and the wrestler will be selected again.

Infinite lives in Royal Rumble
To return to the royal rumble after being thrown out, hit select.

Referee leaves
Knock the ref down 5-10 times or use yokozunas mega move 5-10 times.


http://www.consoleclassix.com/snes/wwf_raw.html
