Zombies Ate My Neighbors
Alternative title: Zombies
Platform: Super Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA, Europe
Media: Cartridge
Controller: Gamepad
Genre: Shoot 'em Up, Run 'n Gun
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1993
Developer: LucasArts
Publisher: Konami
Players: 1 or 2 CO-OP
_________________________
The player chooses between two teenage characters, Zeke and Julie, or both in two-player mode. They navigate suburban neighborhoods, shopping malls, pyramids, and other areas, destroying a variety of horror-movie monsters, including vampires, werewolves, huge demonic babies, and the game's flagship, zombies. In each of the 48 stages (excluding the bonus levels, of which there are 6) the goal is to rescue the surviving neighbors, at which point a magical door opens that will take the player to the next stage. However, if the player is not careful, any enemy in the game will kill the neighbors, preventing them from being saved. At least one neighbor must be saved from each level to progress to the next. The game is lost if all of the neighbors in a certain stage are killed or if the player(s) lose all of their lives. Scoring points earns players more neighbors to save (but only up to the maximum of 10) and extra lives. 

Each level has a maximum of ten neighbors each neighbor type is worth a certain amount of points.

The monsters in the game are based on horror movies made in the 1950s as well as more modern movies such as Friday the 13th and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre (for example, the man with the chainsaw is based on Jason and Leatherface of those movies respectively). The weapons usefulness is also based on these depictions, such that werewolves die in one attack if attacked with silverware, or vampires die faster if attacked with the crucifix. The crucifix is the most powerful weapon and Pandora's Box is the most powerful special item.

In the SNES version of the game, there is a flamethrower which is not included in the Sega Mega Drive version. The flamethrower can only be found once in the game, in level 22, Revenge of Dr Tongue.

There is an extra level in which the character is permitted to walk around Lucas Arts and talk to the staff responsible for the game.

Censorship:

Due to the theme of the game, it was subject to some censorship. This game was released before the ESRB came along and before then, Nintendo did not want anything violent in their video games such as blood and gore. Nintendo of America itself ordered all depictions of red blood and gore be removed or changed to green ooze.

Censorship committees at several European Nations, i.e. United Kingdom, Italy, France, Spain and Germany, went a step further and had the game renamed to just 'Zombies' and ordered other changes, including making the chainsaw-wielding lunatics replaced with lumberjacks with axes.

Tips:

Level Passwords:
B F C B-Level 13
F K Y Q-Level 17
D X B R-Level 21
P Y L Q-Level 25
Y L Z D-Level 29
L J Q J-Level 33
F Z V M-Level 37
F R P J-Level 41
B L H R-Level 45 with ALL 10 victims
X H R S-Level 5
N B G W-Level 9
W B G R-Level 9 with all 10 victims
B C D F-Secret level
X W J R-View Ending Credits

Hear Sound Effects
When the LucasArts logo appears on-screen immediately press the L or R buttons. If you press L, you will hear a person scream. If you press R, then you will hear a dog bark.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zombies_Ate_My_Neighbors

