Box-In
Platform: Atari 800
Region: USA
Media: Basic
Controller: Joystick
Genre: Action
Gametype: Magazine
Release Year: 1985
Developer: Antic
Publisher: Antic
Players: 1
Programmer: J.D. Casten
_________________________

Antic Vol. 3 No. 8 - December 1984

Wow!  This stuff really hits the spot," declared Slyvester Biffdrop as he slurped down his last drop of Diet Crab Cola.  He was enjoying every minute of his vacation at Balogna Beach.  Lying in the sun getting a xanthic tan was Sly's favorite sport.  This vacation as well deserved after surviving his many perils in "Escape From Epsilon" (Antic, June 1984), but the relaxation was soon to end. 

"Phone call for Mr. Biffdrop!" cried a small boy from a nearby pay phone.  Sly quickly disposed of his Crab Cola bottle and ran to the phone. 

"Hello," he panted. 

"Hi Sly," a voice returned, "this is your Aunt Icked.  Now listen, I didn't send you to Balogna Beach just so you could get a xanthic tan.  Go down to Gulls' Grotto and get that ring back for the museum.  Bye Sly." CLICK. 

THE GAME 

Type in Listing 1, check with TYPO, and SAVE a copy.  Plug a joystick into port 1 and RUN the program.  You start with five lives and gain an extra one for each room you successfully pass through.  The game is over when Slyvester loses his last life or when he gets the ring.  If he does get the ring, the time taken to do so is displayed to the nearest minute. 

THE STORY SO FAR 

Two weeks ago a flock of sea gulls had flown to the Icked Medfly Museum and stole a valuable ring.  They're holding the ring for ransom at the infamous Gulls' Grotto.  Slyvester Biffdrop, Inspector of Mysterious Mishaps for Icked Industries, is assigned to recover the ring.  He's now at the entrance to Gulls' Grotto. 

GULLS' GROTTO 

One mile south of Balogna Beach is one of the world's most dreaded areas-Gulls' Grotto.  Few have returned from this extremely dangerous series of caves.  Here is a list of some items said to be found in the Grotto: 

Gruesome Gulls - They fly throughout Gulls' Grotto.  Their touch is deadly to Sly. 

Eggs - The gulls have laid numerous eggs throughout the Grotto.  Sly must kick an egg (touch it with his webbed foot) to dispose of it. 

Doors - Doors lead to other rooms in the Grotto.  A door opens only when Sly has destroyed all the eggs in a room. 

Lasers - These turn on and off intermittently.  One zap and it's goodbye Sly. 

Spikes - Sly's experience in "Escape From Epsilon" has taught him that spikes are very sharp, and are deadly if fallen upon. 

Ladders - Sly can climb up ladders, but not down (a hereditary phobia). 

Jelly Cubes - Sly can walk and fall through these, but you can't see Sly when he's in one. 

Hard Cubes - These look like Jelly Cubes, but Sly cannot penetrate them.  Hard Cubes and Jelly Cubes are usually mixed together, so you must help Sly find his way through the mazes of cubes (counting footsteps sometimes helps). 

The Ring - The ring is in the last room (room eight) of Gulls' Grotto.  Touch the ring, and you (and Sly) have won! 

HINTS 

Get to know Sly - test his limits to see just how much he can do.  Sly is a duck and has wings, so he can fly to a limited extent while in midair.  Practice controlling his jumps and falls.  When you come to a new room, position Sly in a safe spot and figure out a strategy for that room.  If you can't find a way to get through the room, have someone else take a look at the situation with a fresh point of view. It is possible to get the ring-please do not call Antic for the solution.
