G.I. Joe: A Real American Hero
Platform: Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: NES Gamepad
Genre: Platformer
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1991
Developer: KID
Publisher: Taxan
Players: 1
_________________________

Snake Eyes is one of five characters you will use in your long battle. Receive vital information transmitted from Joe headquarters by General Hawk.

Cling to walls while dodging a barrage of enemy fire. Find gun symbols to power up your massive arsenal of weapons. Catch enemy vehicles like the BuzzBoar. Fight the Cobra SeaRay, one of many enemy bosses!

Gameplay:

The player takes control of a team of three G.I. Joe characters, each with their own specialty. The player's goal is to navigate through six stages (with several areas each) on a mission to finally bring down Cobra. The initial character roster consists of Duke, Snake-Eyes, Blizzard, Captain Grid-Iron, and Rock 'n Roll. A sixth character, Hawk, becomes available only for the final stage. Each character leads the team at least once in the entire game, meaning that one character in the given area would be chosen by default. The player would then select the two other operatives to complete their team.

The player collects power-ups in the game that increases an individual character's abilities. Gun icons increases firepower, K-rations recovers energy, and Chevron icons increases the current character's maximum stamina. Bullet icons refills the player's collective ammunition and bulletproof vest icons that grant temporary invincibility are also available at designated locations on each area. Icons flashing in red are more valuable than ordinary icons. All upgrades garnered during the course of the game are permanent, provided of course the character survives the mission.

Certain areas have empty enemy vehicles that the main character can operate. The three different vehicles available are the Buzz Boar, the Pogo, and the Battle Copter. The player can still plant bombs while riding these vehicles.

The format of each stage is broken up into three different areas, which follows the following formula: In the first area, the player's team would fight their way into one of Cobra's bases. In the second area, the player's team has to plant a certain number of bombs inside the base before a pre-determined amount of time. The final area of the stage is a fight with the base's commander. The Cobra soldiers and bosses are all based on characters from the toyline.

Playable Characters:

There are five initial characters in the game (with a sixth character that becomes available for the final stage), each with his strength to bring to the game. The player can choose a team of three for each area. During gameplay, the player can switch between characters after pausing the game. The characters' skills are agility, stamina, strength and firepower.[1]

Duke  The most balanced, possessing the mid-level skills and powers of his comrades. 

Snake-Eyes  Can jump higher and punch/throw faster than his teammates. He is also the only one who does not use up any ammunition, using white fireballs instead. While being able to conserve vital ammunition, Snake-Eyes' weapon is weak. 

Capt. Grid-Iron  Has the greatest fist power and is average in other departments. He is very similar to Duke, but with a shorter jump and a smaller spread weapon. 

Rock 'n Roll  He has the strongest firepower and the widest range of all but all his other ratings below average. 

Blizzard - He is sub-par in most skills except stamina. Blizzard may come in handy during the Antarctic world, but otherwise does not stand out in any specific areas, though his throwing speed is almost as fast as Snake-Eyes. His special ability is that he can shoot through solid walls. 

General Hawk  His appearance is based on the 1991 edition of his action figure. He is the only character who can fly and a requirement when facing Cobra Commander. He only becomes available for use in the final stage. In the course of the game, he was kidnapped by Destro and Rock 'n Roll led a team of operatives to rescue him from the desert. 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/G.I._Joe_(video_game)
