Godzilla: Monster of Monsters!
Platform: Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: NES Gamepad
Genre: Platformer
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1989
Developer: Compile
Publisher: Toho
Players: 1
_________________________

In 2XXX A.D. when the orbits of Pluto and Neptune exchange their positions, the earth receives a declaration of war from an unknown planet. The invaders from Planet X attack the earth as part of their plan to conquer the entire universe using a legion of space monsters.

The earth sends Godzilla, king of the monsters on the earth, and Mothra, to defend itself. Godzilla advances from battle stages called Ring Fields provided in interplanetary space to battle that legion of space monsters controlled by Planet X. Godzilla must battle its way from one Ring Field to another, and finally defeat Ghidora at Planet X to defend the earth. For the sake of the future of the earth, Godzilla's fierce battle now begins....
--from the NES Godzilla instruction manual

Gameplay:

GMoM features two playable characters, Godzilla and Mothra. The player uses both monsters in turn by selecting the desired creature on a virtual gameboard, representative of the planet it is on, and moving it like a chess piece. Each space is a hexagon that represents playable, side-scrolling levels.

Monsters:

Godzilla: One of the playable characters. He can attack with his claws, feet, tail, or atomic breath. He's slow but powerful. By the game's end, Godzilla's life bar and energy bar are equal to those of MechaGodzilla and King Ghidorah. In the American version of the game, Godzilla can move by two hexagonal spaces per turn, but could only move by one space in the original Japanese version. 

Mothra: The other playable monster. She can fire small 'pellet' shaped energy balls from her eyes and spread poison from her wings. She can fly around and move quickly, but is quite weak. Mothra, on the hexagonal movement screen could move four spaces in the American version of the game, and two in the Japanese version. 

Gezora: A monster from Space Amoeba never featured in the Godzilla series. He's a giant cuttlefish with weak offense and defense. His only method of attack is to slap his opponent with a forward projecting tentacle 

Moguera: the mechanical beast who first appeared in the Mysterians and the design of which is used in the game. He fires heat beams from his eyes and tends to retreat a lot. 

Varan: This monster only made one small cameo in the series, but he had his own movie, Varan the Unbelievable. Varan is a melee fighter who punches, kicks, and has a powerful tackle attack. 

Hedorah: The first enemy monster original to the series to show up in the game, the Smog Monster launches globules of condensed smog and attacks with his tentacle-hands. In addition to his final form, a sprite of Hedorah's flying form is shown in the ending of the game, though it does not appear elsewhere (at least not in the North American release). 

Baragon: This one also only made a small cameo. He is too short to hit easily, but he attacks with fire beams and a jumping horn attack. Baragon has moments of random silliness in the game, often taking time out from the fight to turn and look directly at the player and smile, as if mocking the person controlling his opponent and effectively breaking the fourth wall. 

Gigan: Another actual Godzilla-series fiend. His eye can fire lasers, and he has a rotating buzzsaw in his chest. When activated, the blades extend to cause damage. This is a different means of use for the weapon than in the three films Gigan has thus far appeared in. Gigan has a unique animation in the game. Certain blows to Gigan's lower body will cause him to bend over as it he had been struck in the groin. 

Mechagodzilla: He has mostly the same physical attacks as Godzilla, a powerful optic blast, and a large amount of life compared to most other monsters. He and King Ghidorah and Godzilla will end the game with exactly the same levels of life and energy by the time players reach the final stage in the game. Mechagodzilla first appears on Pluto (Pluto was before Neptune when the game was made, Pluto's orbit takes it inside Neptune's orbit at two points), and then appears on Neptune and Planet X. 

King Ghidorah: A large and powerful beast from many of the series' movies. He fires lightning beams (instead of his normal gravity beams) and attacks with what the game manual refers to as 'neck punches' (in reality he is essentially slamming his heads into the heroic monsters and may or may not be biting as well, since there are no real animations for his mouths, unlike Godzilla, Varan, Gigan, MechaGodzilla, and Baragon. Ghidorah is the final opponent in the game and unlike the other monsters, never moves from his position at the enemy base, forcing players to travel the length of the Planet X game board to fight him. he is extremely powerful, having the same amount of power and life as Godzilla and MechaGodzilla by the end of the game and is a serious threat to both of the player monsters, as he likes to corner opponents on the left side of the screen and attack relentlessly, making defeating him very difficult even for experienced players of the game. 

Matangos, Dogoras, and Gohtens appear in the Hyperspace hexes.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Godzilla:_Monster_of_Monsters
http://consoleclassix.com/nes/godzilla.html
