King's Quest V
Platform: Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: NES Gamepad
Genre: Role Playing Game
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1992
Developer: Sierra
Publisher: Konami
Players: 1
_________________________

THE QUEST THUS FAR...

Long ago, in the kingdom of Daventry, there were three magical treasures that kept the kingdom strong and prosperous: A magic mirror that foretold the future, an enchanted shield with the power to overthrow any invaders, and a treasure chest that was never empty. These treasures were taken from Daventry by deception and stealth, and without them Daventry grew poor and weak and King Edward, once a stout-hearted and vigorous ruler, had become powerless and sickly. Edward had no heir, and everyone feared the chaos that would result upon his death.

King Edward asked his bravest knight, Sir Graham, to embark upon a quest to recover the three treasures. Graham's quest was successful, and as his reward, King Edward named Sir Graham his heir and granted him the throne of Daventry.

King Graham was a wise and kindly monarch, and with his great wisdom and the return of the three treasures, Daventry prospered once again. But Graham knew that he must soon marry and establish his own royal line with an heir to the throne. He searched far and wide, but no maiden in the kingdom possessed the qualities he sought in a queen.

One day King Graham saw in his magic mirror a vision of a lovely young woman held prisoner in a crystal tower. The mirror told him that her name was Valanice, a girl both beautiful and good, who had been stolen from her home and taken to a far land. Graham vowed to find her and set her free. After a long journey with many trials, he did, and asked her to be his queen.

In time, Queen Valanice and King Graham became the parents of twins, a son and a daughter. Life in Daventry was peaceful and good - for a time.

In a land far away lived an evil and powerful wizard named Manannan. It was his wont to kidnap infant boys and raise them to be his slaves, eliminating each in turn before he was full-grown and could pose a threat to the wizard's dominance. His most recent vassal, a boy he called Gwydion, was, however, unusually bright and perceptive. He mastered several of Manannan's spells and cast one against him which turned Manannan into a cat. With that, Gwydion was free!

After a time, Gwydion's travels brought him to Daventry, not the lovely and peaceful Daventry of days gone by, but a land devastated by a terrible affliction. The kingdom had fallen victim to the ravages of a dreadful three-headed dragon, which had burned the land all around and drove many people away from the town.

Gwydion was able to use his newly found powers to destroy the dragon and rescue the intended victim from its lair. He was taken before the King and Queen and rewarded in such a way as he never could have imagined in his life as Manannan's slave.

In later years, King Graham's health began to fail, and the royal physicians were powerless to help him. Only a magical fruit from the faraway land of Tamir could bring about a cure and restore the health of Daventry's monarch. Graham's daughter, Princess Rosella, set off in pursuit of this healing magic for her father. On her journey, she performed many brave deeds, and had many great adventures.

With the King's health fully restored, and his family together once more, it was a happy and fulfilled Graham who set out for a walk in the forest one spring day almost a year since Rosella had returned from Tamir. The kingdom was peaceful and prosperous again, and the people were content. Birds were singing in the trees. It seemed an auspicious sign.

As Graham was contemplating his good fortune, a sharp wind blew into the wood from the east, whirling up sticks and leaves into his path, and startling the birds into silence. The air grew suddenly colder. It seemed an unexpected storm was approaching. Graham began to walk back to the castle, his joyful mood broken by a dark foreboding.

When he reached the top of the gentle rise overlooking his home, he was horrified to see only empty space where the royal castle of Daventry had stood only minutes before. Cold fear gripped his heart. Where was his family? What had happened to them?

"Whoo-hoo... whoo-hoo." An owl hooted behind him, but Graham scarcely heard it over the pounding of his heart. "I can tell you what happened," came a voice behind him, and Graham spun around to confront a large owl in a blue vest and spectacles. "I know what happened to your castle. I saw it all," said the owl.

Journey into the magical world of on a mission to find the missing castle and the royal family of Daventry.

--From the NES King's Quest V instruction manual.

Overview:

One day King Graham was walking around, taking it easy and thinking about things. When he arrived back to his castle, he was shocked to find only an empty space where the castle used to be. Graham's family and castle had been taken captive by the evil wizard Mordack.

With the help of the wizard Crispin and Cedric the owl, Graham sets out on another adventure to find his family and rescue them from the evil Mordack.

Directions:

"King's Quest V is an adventure role-playing game in which you control 

all the movement and actions of the main character, King Graham. You will spend a lot of time in the game traveling to interesting - and sometimes dangerous - places. You'll look for useful items to help you reach your goal. You will also talk to people to get information and clues. On the screen in front of you will be Graham and his sidekick, the wise owl Cedric." (instruction booklet)

To perform actions such as talking to people, looking at things, and picking up and using items you will use an icon bar that will display at the top of the screen. 

Controls:

A Button: Perform specific action
B Button: Pick between look, talk, and action icons.
Start Button: Pause
Select Button: Make icon bar appear. Press the control pad left or right to cycle through all the icons.

Hints:

Getting what you need from the desert
WARNING: You may not want to read this if you want to play through this game and solve everything by yourself. This will just tell you what you need from the desert and how to get it but not what you need to do with the items afterwards.

Start at the fortune tellers wagon and go left until you reach some water with a big temple in the background. Hide before you drink the water until the horseman enters and leaves the temple. Drink some water then go down, down, down, left. Then drink some more water from the oasis and go right two screens. You will be at some remains of a dead guy. Pick up the boot and head back to the oasis for water. From there go down, down, left. You should be at some tents. Go in the one to the right and pick up the staff in the back. Be careful not to wake up the guy, and do not forget to get more water from the jug before you leave again. Then backtrack to the temple. Go up to it and use the staff to knock on the door. (You have to see the horseman go in and out of the temple before you can do this.) Then pick up the gold coin and magic lamp from the inside of the temple. You will use these both later. Exit the desert back from where you came. Do not forget some water before you journey back or you might not make it.

Reviewer: Matt
http://consoleclassix.com/nes/kings_quest_v.html
