Mario Adventure
Original title: Super Mario Bros. 3
Platform: Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA (Update Hacks)
Media: Cartridge
Controller: NES Gamepad
Genre: Platformer 
Gametype: Hack
Release Year: 2004
Hacked by: DahrkDiaz
Version: 1.0
_________________________
Best hack ever

Easily the best ROM hack I have ever played. Most Rom hacks are more of the same, which is cool because I usually play because I liked the original. This, however, really feel like an evolved game. Like Super Mario Brothers 3 Part 2.

The Worlds all have a completely new theme. A couple old themes are recycled, like the ice world and desert world, but they have a new feel to them. The giant world is also recycled, but in a really cool way.

The most major change is the new power-ups and the fact that you can switch powers on the fly during the level. This creates totally new strategies. It's really sweet to be able to fly with a raccoon tail over a difficult platforming section and then quickly switch to fireballs to blast something on the other side. The new power-ups added to the game are also cool, particularly the invisible cap which grants temporary (limited) invincibility.

New weather effects are neat to switch it up, but the snow is really annoying and I'd usually just suicide instead of trying to play through snow.

My biggest critisism is that the backgrounds lack variety, mostly because of the weather thing. If you've seen one level in the rain, you've seen them all. This is a really minor issue, and didn't take away from the experience very much at all.

Read the instructions that come with the ROM or you'll almost definitly miss some of the cool new features - because when you get to about World 4 and figure out you need to find a key in each world you're going to wish you read that thing.

Some of the levels are particularly challenging. Don't give up.

Description:

As of 2006, this is hailed as one of the greatest NES hacks of all time. This Super Mario Brothers 3 hack changes the game right down to the core by tweaking the actual game engine itself!

Aside from the 'typical' graphics and text changes, this hack alters musical melodies, a full line up of all new levels, new power ups, new abilities for Mario, and even new enemies! When I say new, I'm not talking about changed graphics; I'm talking about completely new power ups and monsters. Money mushrooms, invisible Mario, time stopping potions, Kuribo shoes in any level that don't disappear, shy guys that create projectiles, heat seeking bullet bills, and others are just the beginning of the changes made to this game.

On top of that, you have random weather patterns on every stage, boss battles on every stage, and infinite lives, so your coins go to more useful purposes. They will be used to buy items from Toad's house and get some level exits to appear. Let's not forget stored, and switchable, power ups such as those found in Super Mario World!

This description really doesn't do this hack justice. It's certainly impressive to say the least. Just download it and try it out! It's definitely one of the most advanced SMB3 hacks to date and pretty darn fun as well!

Reviewer: mr type 4
http://www.romhacking.net/hacks/70/