Strider
Platform: Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: NES Gamepad
Genre: Platformer
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1989
Developer: Capcom
Publisher: Capcom
Players: 1
_________________________

"Strider" is the strongest secret maneuvers group in the world. It specializes in smuggling, kidnapping, demolitions, disruption, etc. One strider of C- grade is equivalent to one well-trained team of special corps.

Hiryu was the youngest strider of Super-A grade. After eliminating the sister of a mad A-grade Strider, he decided to retire and was spending his life peacefully in Mongolia.

One day the Vice-Driector of Strider, Matic, showed up. Apparently, Hiryu's friend Kain had been caught by the enemy. Matic ordered Hiryu to destroy his friend Kain and threatened to start slaughtering Mongolians if Hiryu refused.

Hiryu had no choice but to return. fter rescuing Kain, he discovered the fearful plan conceived by the Striders and an organization called "Enterprise" an evil project called "ZAIN"

Hiryu decided to destroy the ZAIN mind-control weapon along with Enterprise and the Striders. The fate of the world hangs in the balance.

--From the NES Strider instruction manual.

Overview:

Gamers familiar with the arcade hit by the same name might be wondering what this game has to do with that one. Is this a sequel? An alternate reality? Or just another totally different game that happens to have the same name and a few other things in common? Well, the answer is that Strider Hiryu was originally a character in an obscure Japanese comic book, and this game is based on his story-line from the comic, while the arcade version, which was later ported to Sega Genesis, features a very different plot about Communist dictators and alien invasion.

If you let the main screen go away you're shown 3 characters (Sheena, Kain, and Strider Hiryu) after the definitions of striders. It then shows the main base and has very impressive 8-bit music, possibly the best I ever heard in an 8-bit game. Once you start the game you're automatically thrown into a compelling, but very confusing storyline. The game is set up very nicely, especially for the day and age of the system and game. It is very unique on what your destination is and how power ups are found. All the little clues kept me wanting to find more and more, all the while I was advancing through the levels without taking notice and learning more about what was going on. (I'm sorry I don't want to spoil it) I may have understood the game a bit more if I hadn't played strider on GEN as a kid. The game play is fairly simple, don't let your health deplete to 0, kill everything you see, and collect everything you're given! The wide range of people you meet and places you go also added interest to the game. This is definitely one solid NES game that I suggest to all if you like Ninja Gaiden or Shinobi!

9.5 out of 10!

Directions:

Start out on an available level of your choice, eliminating enemies one by one, sometimes giving you health to help you throughout the level. Some levels have many different path choices to take, some smart and some you may want to think twice about. Almost each level has some sort of power up or hidden item for you. For extra help on finding these items you can acquire data disks and analyze them at the base. A message on the floppy will tell you places to look or certain missions to accomplish. Raise your level and power up to make it through the 13 levels of the game! 

Controls:

A Button: Jump
B Button: Attack
Start Button: Start, Pause
Select Button: Menu

Hints:

Passwords
AAIA AAAA AAIA ----- 01
BCJB BBNB NBAB ----- 02
CEOC KCOC OCMC ----- 03
DGPD LDBD BDAD ----- 04
HLDJ PIGH GHCH ----- 05
HLDJ DIGH GHGH ----- 06
HLEJ DIGH GHHH ----- 07
INHK GJHI HILI ----- 08
JPIL HKIB IBMJ ----- 09
CJBE ADBO BONC ----- 10
BJAP PEAN ANOB ----- 11
DMCC BGCP CPOD ----- 12
DMCC PGCP CPMD ----- Final Stage

Reviewer: Aggort
http://consoleclassix.com/nes/strider.html
