Super Mario Bros. 3
Platform: Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: NES Gamepad
Genre: Platformer
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1990
Developer: Nintendo
Publisher: Nintendo
Players: 1 or 2 Alternating
_________________________

The Mushroom Kingdom has been a peaceful place thanks to the brave deeds of Mario and Luigi. The Mushroom Kingdom forms an entrance to the Mushroom World where all is not well. Bowser has sent his 7 children to make mischief as they please in the normally peaceful Mushroom World. They stile the royal magic wands from each country in the Mushroom World and used them to turn their kings into animals. Mario and Luigi must recover the royal magic wands from Bowser's 7 kids and return the kings to their true forms. "Goodbye and good luck!," said the Princess and Toad as Mario and Luigi set off on their journey deep into the Mushroom World.

"We took 7 wands from the 7 kings. Each of us has one. Our father has instructed us to protect the wands."

--From the NES Super Mario Bros. 3 instruction manual.

Overview:

It wasn't long ago when Mario, Luigi, Toad and Princess Toadstool had set off on their exciting adventure to rescue the Subcon World. The characters have now arrived back at the Mushroom Kingdom, and it seems that everything is remaining peaceful...until one fateful day...

Bowser invades again! But this time it's not the Mushroom Kingdom he's after. It's the Mushroom WORLD he wants! And this time he's brought his 7 Kids (known as the Koopalings) to help him control the world! Bowser and his 7 children, Iggy, Lemmy, Wendy, Morton, Roy, Larry and Ludwig Von invade the 8 kingdoms in the Mushroom World and steal each kingdom's magic wand from its holder, that kingdom's king. The Koopalings turn the kings into animals using the wands, and havoc is eventually wreaked again among the Mushroom World. But all hope is not lost...

Enter Mario and Luigi, who bear no grudge against Bowser and his children. The two brothers are now setting off to get the wands back, and kick Bowser and the Koopalings out of the Mushroom World for good! So, it's up to you to control Mario and Luigi, and help them venture through 8 worlds and restore peace to the Mushroom World.

Mario and Luigi now walk out of the gates of the Mushroom Kingdom, into the wide, open world. "Goodbye!" Princess Toadstool and Toad shout as they wave to the brothers, who are now ready for their biggest adventure yet!

Super Mario Bros. 3 was a monumental game for Nintendo. They decided to go back to the roots. In other words, they made it a lot more like Super Mario Bros. 1. An upgrade to the graphics and the addition of the ability to fly made for a great game. Super Mario Bros. 3 was the first Super Mario game to feature the overland map where you can sort of choose your own path. This game also debuted the ability to fight your opponent for the next turn. When your opponent is walking by your square, you can push your button and pull them into a Mario Bros. style battle for the next turn. You can also steal his cards in this mode. Super Mario Bros. 3 is a very fun and popular game, we have had to go out and buy more copies of this game several times. Enjoy!

Directions:

Lead Mario through the Mushroom Kingdom, restoring kings along the way to save the Princess. Classic Mario action with new powerups. Mushroom still makes to become Super Mario, but after becoming Super Mario you can become many other forms. If you grab a flower you become Fire Mario(Shoot fireballs with B), with a Leaf you become Racoon Mario. Rare suits (Tanooki, Hammer Bros., and Frog) do not require you to be any Mario form. Tanooki Mario can turn into a statue by pressing down and B, Hammer Mario can throw Hammers with B and if ducking is immune to fireball attacks, and Frog Mario helps a lot in the water, but will only slow you down on land. Star Mario is invincible.

Racoon Mario and Tanooki Mario are the only Mario transformations that can fly. To fly, hold down the B button and run across a flat surface until your P meter charges up. Jump and tap A to fly now. After a few seconds, you will lose your flight. You can now slowly lower yourself by tapping A.

Enemies with shells(not including Spikeys) can be used. Just jump on them once to put them inside their shell. Then hold B and walk into them. Release B to let them go.

Unlike Super Mario Bros. 1(And JPN 2) Mario will go back to Super Mario if he's hit when he is in any other form besides Super and Regular. A welcome change! 

Controls:

A Button: Jump
B Button: Run/Grab
Start Button: Pause
Select Button: Select between 1 and 2 players

Hints:

Play in Background
To play in the Background, hold down when you are on a white 'block' (Next to the first koopa troopa in level 1). You will go into the background. In level 3 you can use this technique to get a warp whistle.

White Airships
White Airships are full of coins, and are tricky to get. They only appear on Odd Levels (1-3-5 etc...). You need to complete the level with a factor of 11 coins. Also, your score must match your coins 'tens' place. So if you have 77 coins, and end with a score of 345,074, the white Air Ship should appear.

White Mushroom Houses
To get the Secret Toad Houses, you must collect a certain amount of coins in certain levels. There is one in each world except for 8
World 1 - Level 4 (44 coins)
World 2 - Level 2 (30 coins)
World 3 - Level 8 (42? coins)
World 4 - Level 2 (22 coins)
World 5 - Level 5 (28 coins)
World 6 - Level 7 (78 coins)
World 7 - Level 2 (42 coins)

Super Mario Bros. Battle!
To play a variation of the original Mario Bros. game, you have to be in a 2 player game. Go to the second player's spot(It should be a small circle with an L or an M) and press A.

Reviewer: Adrian
http://consoleclassix.com/nes/super_mario_bros_3.html
