Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II
Platform: Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: NES Gamepad
Genre: Action
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1990
Developer: Ultra
Players: 1-2
_________________________

Welcome to the crime infested boroughs of New York, where one wrong look at the right person can be your last. But the turtles sleep contentedly, for they've made Manhattan a safer place for all. Especially since they've sent Shredder to the local landfill. Or so they think.

While dreams of pepperoni pizzas dance through their heads, the turtles' worst nightmares blast into Earth's atmosphere. Two intergalactic bounty hunters have been attracted by the price Shredder has placed on the half shell heroes' heads. Shredder's alive and looking for payback!

Although the turtles tossed Shredder into the metal jaws of a garbage truck, his titanium battle helmet protected his maniacal mind from being mauled. Upon awakening on a seabound garbage ship, Shredder vowed vengeance.

After floating back to land on a pile of non-biodegradable styrofoam cups, Shredder began training a new breed of Foot Soldier. One that is better trained in the lethal art of Taekwondo. And one that will make the ultimate sacrifice to defend his leader. But that was only the beginning. Shredder journeyed throughout the universe, via his Translocation Matrix Beam, recruiting the top bounty hunters. He chose two.

Tora is a ten foot, half ton blizzard beast who, in 2000 years, has never known defeat. Journeying from the distant ice planet of Traglodoon, he has come to Earth needing only one weapon, his devastating claws. His partner in cosmic crime is Shogun, an inhabitant of Sector Six in the Dead Star Zone, and the mastermind behind the Ultimate Galactic Sword.

But that's not all, folks. Shredder and his professional punishers have again captured April O'Neil and plan to use her as turtle bait. Fail to save this lovely journalist, and that's all she wrote!

Shredder's ten levels of terror, with a lethal leader at the end of each one, are the deadliest the turtles have ever had to face. Even if you survive the eight action riddled arcade areas, you still must contend with the two new unbeatable bounty hunter stages. But the turtles stand ready to fight through this shell squashing mess. For Splinter has taught these turtles to fight with the ferocity of a lion.

--From the NES Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 2 instruction manual.

Overview:

After the so-called demise of The Shredder, the Turtles have been chillin' for a while. Then Shredder came back and vowed revenge on the 4 Turtles! He also teaches his ninjas Taekwando, which will make them more dangerous! He used his Translocation Matrix Beam to recruit some great bounty hunters, Tora and Shogun! Shredder kidnaps April, to lure the Turtles into his trap. Splinter also gets captured, which adds quite a twist to the plot. So get ready for another shell-shockin' game, dudes!

Directions:

You can choose between 4 turtles: Leonardo, Donatello, Michaelango, and Raphael. Each turtle has their own different style. But you probably already know that. Moving on, you fight through 8 stages of grueling butt-kicking action, each ending with their own boss!

Controls:

A Button: Jump, jump attack while pressing B
B Button: Attack, Jump attack while pressing A
Start Button: Pause/Unpause
Select Button: Select between 1 or 2 Turtles

Hints:

Extra lives &amp; Stage select
At the Title Screen press B, A, B, A, Up, Down, B, A, Left, Right, B, A, Start 

Reviewer: LinkOfHyrule
http://consoleclassix.com/nes/teenage_mutant_ninja_turtles_2.html
