Zen: Intergalactic Ninja
Platform: Nintendo Entertainment System
Region: USA
Media: Cartridge
Controller: NES Gamepad
Genre: Platformer - Action - Side-Scrolling
Gametype: Licensed
Release Year: 1993
Developer: Konami Co., Ltd.
Publisher: Konami (America), Inc.
Players: 1
_________________________

Zen: Intergalactic Ninja, based on a comic book of the same name, is a story about a militant environmentalist ninja named Zen. He has been assigned by a group of green, pointy-headed aliens to come to earth and stop environmental pollution by any means necessary. Eventually, he will have to find the big polluter, Lord Contaminous. The game play consists of side scrolling and isometric 3D scrolling action. Zen can run, jump, slice with this stick, or use powerups as the game requires.

History:

"Zen: Intergalactic Ninja" was one of the two NES games that Konami released in 1993, the other being "Tiny Toons 2". 1993 was a year during which systems like the Genesis and Super NES gained more popularity among gamers while the NES didn't receive as much attention anymore. It might be one of the reasons why the game isn't as well-known as most of the other carts Konami made for the NES over the years; it might also be partly caused by the play control, which doesn't initially feel as crisp as it is in other Konami games.

Controls:

All Stages

Jump: Press the A button.
Attack: Press the B button. 
Use Life Item: Press the Select button.

Side-View Stages:

Crouch: Press the Control Pad down.

Hang from a branch or pipe: Press the Control Pad up and press the A button to move and the B button to kick.

Drop to a floor below: Press the Control Pad down together with the A button.

Rebound Jump: When you hit a wall, press the Control Pad in the direction of the wall and at the same time press the A button. By doing this consecutively, you can climb to a high place.

Jab: Press the Control button in the direction of the enemy and at the same time press the B button to jab attack. While jabbing, if you make contact with the enemy, hold the B button down and press the Control Pad in the opposite direction for a powerful blow.

Diagonal-view stages:

Crouch: Hold the B button to crouch after an attack.

Mid-air Attack: During a jump, press the B button to attack, or tap the B button rapidly to extend your jumping distance.

Jab: Press the Control Pad in the direction of the enemy and press the B but-ton to jab attack. After the jab attack, you can hold the B button down and press the Control Pad in the opposite direction for a powerful blow.

Jab and Toss: During the jab attack, once you make contact, you can hold down the B button and rotate the Control Pad to swing the enemy in a circle. Release the B button and the garbage goon will go flying to that great dumping the sky.

Hints: 

Password for the Last Level
At the password screen enter - Bottle, Tire, Can, Can 

The items you've collected throughout a level are carried over the next; thus, even though you can play the first four stages in any order, it's preferable to start with the easiest (or the one which gives you the most items), as you'll build your power for the toughest areas. The walkthrough below addresses this issue.

When fighting an enemy whose attacks are bombs, blasts, etc., primarily use jabs (press the control pad towards the enemy + B), since their range is more considerable than that of straight-ahead blows (done by pressing B without touching the control pad). 

Instead of running as fast as you can to complete the "slower" stages of the game, always look out for what might fall in front of you.

While fighting bosses, always keep an eye not only on your own life gauge, but also on the bosses'; if you have a lot more energy than he/she does, keep attacking him/her even though you're vulnerable to his/her counter-attacks. If you only have one or two life points left, use a life-regenerating item by pressing SELECT. But if you fight a boss and see that you have no chance of defeating him/her (assuming you have more than one life), don't use life- regenerating items and spare them for your next try.

http://www.consoleclassix.com/nes/zen_intergalactic_ninja.html
